The House Committee on Health offers the following substitute to SB 39:

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Title 31 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to health, so as to

provide for the certification of community health workers; to provide for definitions; to

provide for the establishment of the Georgia Community Health Worker Certification

Committee; to provide for membership, powers, and duties of the committee; to provide for

committee abolishment and transfer of powers and duties to the Department of Public Health;

to provide for administrative support; to provide for rules and regulations; to provide for

standards; to provide for the approval of training programs; to provide for application

procedures; to provide for requirements; to provide for related matters; to provide for an

effective date conditioned on appropriations; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other

purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Title 31 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to health, is amended by revising

Chapter 31, which is reserved, as follows:

"CHAPTER 31

31-31-1.

As used in this chapter, the term:

(1) 'Certified community health worker' means an individual to whom the committee has

issued a certificate to serve as a certified community health worker based on standards

and requirements approved by the department.

(2) 'Commissioner' means the commissioner of public health.

(3) 'Committee' means the Georgia Community Health Worker Certification Committee

established by Code Section 31-31-2.

(4) 'Community health worker' means a frontline public health worker who is a trusted

member of a community or has a demonstrated knowledge of a community and

individuals served and:

(A) Provides culturally appropriate health education, information, and outreach in

community based settings such as homes, schools, clinics, shelters, local businesses,

and community centers;

(B) Bridges or culturally mediates between individuals, communities, and health and

human services, including actively building individual and community capacity;

(C) Assures that community members access the services they need;

(D) Provides direct services, such as informal counseling, social support, care

coordination, and health screenings;

(E) Advocates for individual and community needs with an emphasis on healthcare

needs; and

(F)

community health worker practice.

Provides any additional services that may emerge in the development of

(5) 'Core competencies' means the knowledge and skills a certified community health

worker is expected to demonstrate in order to carry out the mission and goals of the

profession. Such term includes, but is not limited to, communication skills; interpersonal

and relationship-building skills; service coordination and navigation skills;

capacity-building skills; patient advocacy skills; education and facilitation skills;

individual and community assessment skills; community outreach and engagement skills;

evaluation and research skills; and knowledge base.

(6) 'Department' means the Department of Public Health.

(7)

curriculum and training required for a community health worker to be eligible for

certification and that has been approved by the department based on standards and

requirements recommended by the committee. Reserved.

31-31-2.

(a) There is established the Georgia Community Health Worker Certification Committee.

The commissioner shall appoint the 11 voting members of the committee as follows:

(1) One licensed physician with a specialization in primary care or family medicine;

(2) One licensed physician with a specialization in maternal and child health;

(3) One licensed physician with a specialization in geriatrics;

(4) One licensed social worker;

(5) Three representatives of community health worker employers, one of whom shall

represent hospitals, one of whom shall represent a federally qualified health center, and

one of whom shall represent a community based organization;

(6) One person with experience and training in public health policy, with special

consideration given to an active member of the Georgia Community Health Worker

Advocacy Coalition;

(7) Two practicing community health workers, provided that such persons are eligible

for certification as community health workers in this state and shall obtain such

certification within a time frame specified in bylaws adopted by the committee; and

'Training program' means an education and training program that meets the

(8) One active member of the Georgia Community Health Worker Advisory Board.

(b) The commissioner shall appoint two department representatives to serve as nonvoting

members of the committee.

(c) Any voting member of the committee shall serve a two-year term, and no such member

shall serve on the committee for more than two consecutive full terms. A member

appointed for less than a full term may serve two consecutive full terms, and a former

member shall be eligible again for appointment after a lapse of one or more years.

(d) If there is a vacancy on the committee, such position shall be filled in the same manner

as the original appointment. Members of the committee may be removed from office by

the commissioner under the same conditions for removal from office of members of

professional licensing boards provided in Code Section 43-1-17.

(e) Members shall serve without compensation, but they may be reimbursed by the

department, subject to fund availability, in the same manner as state officials and

employees for travel and other expenses actually incurred by them in carrying out their

duties as members of the committee.

(f) The committee shall be abolished June 30, 2030, and the powers and duties of the

committee shall transfer to the department upon such abolishment.

31-31-3.

(a) The committee shall meet at least quarterly and may meet at such other times at the call

of the chairperson or by a majority of the members as necessary to transact its business.

Such meetings may be conducted in person, by telephone, by virtual means, or any

combination thereof.

(b) The committee shall elect a chairperson, vice chairperson, and secretary from among

its membership. Such officers shall serve for terms of two years.

(c) A majority of the members of the committee shall constitute a quorum and shall have

the authority to act upon any matter properly brought before the committee. The

committee shall follow all policies and procedures of Chapter 14 of Title 50, relating to

open and public meetings.

(d) The committee shall have the following powers and duties:

(1) To make recommendations to the department on the standards and requirements for

approval of training programs and a means for programs providing education and training

to community health workers prior to July 1, 2027, to become approved training

programs;

(2) To make recommendations to the department on the standards and requirements for

the certification of community health workers and a means for individuals employed or

engaged as community health workers prior to July 1, 2027, to become certified

community health workers;

(3) To make recommendations to the department on the standards and a means to assess

the mastery of core competencies necessary for an individual to become a certified

community health worker;

(4) To provide for an expedited means for a community health worker duly certified in

another jurisdiction to become a certified community health worker in this state;

(5) To make recommendations to the department on the establishment of tiered levels of

practice for certified community health workers and requirements for each established

level, including a level that qualifies a certified community health worker to act as an

educator or trainer in an approved training program;

(6) To establish a process for the receipt, review, approval, and denial of applications for

certification;

(7) To establish a process for the receipt and review of complaints related to the practice

of certified community health workers;

(8) To establish disciplinary procedures and actions, including revocation or denial of

a certificate issued, or a combination of the foregoing; and

(9) To perform such other functions and duties in order to protect public health, safety,

and welfare as may be required to carry out this chapter.

(e)

committee activities.

(f) The department shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to

implement the provisions of this article, including recommendations from the committee.

31-31-4.

(a) All training programs in this state shall satisfy the requirements established by the

department. No entity shall hold itself out as providing training and education for certified

community health workers in this state unless its training program has been approved by

the committee.

(b) The department shall post on its website the requirements and the application form for

a training program to become approved and for the renewal of such approvals. Such

requirements shall include 45 hours of core competency training, of which 16 hours shall

include training on specific health topics.

(c) An applicant for an approved training program shall submit an application to the

committee demonstrating satisfaction of the requirements for a training program and pay

a fee set by the department; provided, however, that, if an applicant provided education and

training to community health workers prior to July 1, 2027, such applicant shall submit an

application to the committee demonstrating satisfaction of requirements for such program,

pay a fee set by the department, and provide a list of students who successfully completed

such program at any time from January 1, 2016, to July 1, 2027.

(d) An application is not complete until the committee has received all the required

materials. The committee shall notify the applicant within 15 calendar days after receipt

of an application whether such application is complete or incomplete and identify any

materials that are needed to complete such application. When the applicant fails to provide

The department shall provide reasonably necessary administrative support for

the required documentation within 120 calendar days of notification, the committee may

administratively close such application or deny the application. An applicant whose

application is administratively closed or denied may reapply and submit a new application

and a new application fee.

(e) The approvals of training programs under this Code section shall be valid for up to two

years and shall expire biennially unless renewed. Suspension and revocation of approvals

shall be subject to the administrative procedures contained in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the

'Georgia Administrative Procedure Act.'

31-31-5.

(a) The title 'certified community health worker' shall only be used by individuals who

have met the requirements and qualifications for certification as a community health

worker as established by the committee and have been duly certified by the committee. An

individual certified as a community health worker shall identify himself or herself as a

certified community health worker during any patient interactions and shall not utilize any

other titles that such individual is not certified or licensed to use.

(b) The department shall post on its website the requirements and the application form for

a community health worker to become certified and for the renewals of such certificates.

(c) An applicant for a certified community health worker shall submit an application to the

committee demonstrating satisfaction of the requirements for a certified community health

worker and pay a fee set by the department. A certified community health worker shall:

(1) Be 18 years of age or older;

(2) Possess a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent;

(3) Not be ineligible for certification on grounds established by the committee;

(4) Provide professional references, one of which shall be a current or former supervisor,

with direct knowledge of the applicant's work and ability in the core competencies for

community health workers;

(5)(A) Have received satisfactory results from criminal background checks. The

committee is authorized to conduct and receive criminal background checks, including,

but not limited to, by the submission of fingerprints or other identifying information to

the Federal Bureau of Investigation through the Georgia Crime Information Center. In

order to determine an applicant's suitability for certification as a community health

worker, the committee shall require the applicant to furnish the committee with a full

set of fingerprints or other identifying information as may be necessary to enable

criminal background checks to be conducted.

(B) The committee shall submit the fingerprints or other identifying information

furnished by an applicant to the Georgia Crime Information Center. The Georgia

Crime Information Center is authorized to submit such fingerprints or information to

the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal background check. The

Georgia Crime Information Center shall notify the committee in writing of its findings,

including, but not limited to, the inability to identify a criminal record. Any findings

received by the committee shall be used for the exclusive purpose of carrying out its

responsibilities under this Code section, shall not be public records, shall be

confidential, and shall not be disclosed to any other person or agency, except to any

person or agency which otherwise has a legal right to inspect such data. Any records

obtained in furtherance of this Code section shall be maintained by the committee

pursuant to laws regarding such records and the rules and regulations of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Crime Information Center as applicable.

(C)

performance of criminal background checks as provided for in this paragraph. The

applicant shall be responsible for any fees associated with the performance of such

background checks;

By applying for a license under this article, an applicant consents to the

(6) Submit proof of successful completion of an approved training program and 2,000

hours of employment as a community health worker within ten years of the date of

application; and

(7) Satisfy any other requirements established by rules and regulations promulgated by

the department.

(d) An applicant may satisfy the requirement provided in paragraph (6) of subsection (c)

of this Code section if such applicant submits an application prior to July 1, 2028, and

proof of:

(1) Successful completion of an education and training program for community health

workers completed between July 1, 2016, and July 1, 2027, and 2,000 hours of

employment as a community health worker within ten years of the date of application as

established by the committee; or

(2) At least 4,000 hours of employment as a community health worker within ten years

of the date of application and an attestation from an employer that such applicant

performed duties that included core competencies and is competent to perform activities

as a certified community health worker as established by the committee.

(e) An application for a certified community health worker is not complete until the

committee has received all the required materials. The committee shall notify the applicant

within 15 calendar days after receipt of an application whether such application is complete

or incomplete and identify any materials that are needed to complete such application.

When the applicant fails to provide the required documentation within 120 calendar days

of notification, the committee may administratively close such application or deny the

application. An applicant whose application is administratively closed or denied may

reapply and submit a new application and a new application fee.

(f) Certificates issued pursuant to this Code section shall be valid for up to two years and

shall expire biennially unless renewed. Suspension and revocation of certificates shall be

subject to the administrative procedures contained in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the 'Georgia

Administrative Procedure Act.'"

SECTION 2.

(a) This Act shall become effective only if funds are specifically appropriated for the

purposes of this Act in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.

(b) If funds are so appropriated, then this Act shall become effective on the later of:

(1) The date on which such appropriations Act becomes effective; or

(2) The beginning date of the fiscal year for which such appropriations are made.

SECTION 3.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
