Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
of North Dakota

HOUSE BILL NO. 1623

Introduced by
Legislative Management
(Joint Appropriations Committee)

A BILL for an Act to provide an appropriation to the department of health and human services

for federal rural health transformation program grant funds; to provide an exemption; to provide

for application; to provide a report; and to provide an effective date.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY OF NORTH DAKOTA:

SECTION 1. APPROPRIATION - DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES -

FEDERAL RURAL HEALTH TRANSFORMATION PROGRAM. There is appropriated from

other funds derived from federal funds, not otherwise appropriated, the sum of $397,873,940, or

so much of the sum as may be necessary, to the department of health and human services for

the federal rural health transformation program, for the period beginning with the effective date

of this Act and ending June 30, 2027.

SECTION 2. EXEMPTION - LINE ITEM TRANSFERS. Notwithstanding section 54-16-04,

the director of the office of management and budget shall transfer funds between section 1 of

this Act and subdivisions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of section 1 of House Bill No. 1012, as approved by

the sixty-ninth legislative assembly, as requested by the department of health and human

services. Any transfers from section 1 of this Act to the salaries and wages block grant line item

in subdivision 1 of section 1 of House Bill No. 1012, as approved by the sixty-ninth legislative

assembly, are not subject to the transfer limitation provisions in section 4 of House Bill

No. 1012. The department of health and human services shall notify the legislative council of

any transfer made pursuant to this section.

SECTION 3. EXEMPTION - CONTINGENT AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE

APPROPRIATION AUTHORITY. If the department of health and human services awards

federal rural health transformation program funds appropriated in section 1 of this Act to another

state agency or institution, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the office of management

and budget may adjust the state agency or institution's federal funds appropriation authority by
Page No. 1

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly

the amount of the award during the period beginning with the effective date of this Act and

ending June 30, 2027. The office of management and budget shall notify the legislative council

of any appropriation adjustments made pursuant to this section.

SECTION 4. APPLICATION - EXEMPTION - FEDERAL RURAL HEALTH
TRANSFORMATION PROGRAM.
1.

Section 54-27-12 does not apply to the erection or improvement of any public building

or structure or the purchase of real property utilizing funding appropriated in section 1

of this Act.

2.

Notwithstanding chapter 54-44.7, an agency or governing body may use the process

outlined in section 37-10-03.6 for consultants in the areas of architecture, engineering,

construction management, land surveying, and related matters when using the funding

appropriated in section 1 of this Act for public improvements to meet the requirements

of section 48-01.2-02.

3.

Equipment or supplies purchased by the state with the funding appropriated in

section 1 of this Act may be transferred to other entities or individuals in accordance

with the requirements of the federal rural health transformation program.

4.

Notwithstanding subsection 7 of section 54-44.4-13, cooperative purchasing may be

made available to entities eligible to receive funding appropriated in section 1 of this

Act in accordance with the requirements of the federal rural health transformation

program.

5.

Section 32-12.2-15 does not apply to any routine or standardized products that contain

adhesive contract terms in shrink wrap documents, third-party end user licenses, or

click-through agreements that are not consistent with section 32-12.2-15 for purchases

using funding appropriated in section 1 of this Act if the purchase involves training,

training and testing materials, reference materials, access to online information, online

services, memberships, licensure, conferences, or travel, and the purchase or use

does not require the disclosure of confidential information or personally identifiable

information as defined in chapter 51-30 and does not impact data or system security.

For purposes of this section, "routine or standardized products" means products

commercially available to the public.

Page No. 2

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly

SECTION 5. GRANT RECIPIENT ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND REPORTING. The funds

appropriated in section 1 of this Act are limited duration federal funds allocated to the state

through the federal rural health transformation program. The department of health and human

services shall require grant recipients to acknowledge in any grant agreement that the funding

awarded is from funding that will not continue beyond the duration of the federal rural health

transformation program. The department may require grant recipients to submit process and

outcome measures to the department for programs and services receiving funds appropriated in

section 1 of this Act.

SECTION 6. LEGISLATIVE MANAGEMENT REPORT. During the remainder of the

2025-26 interim, the department of health and human services shall provide periodic reports to

the legislative management regarding the status of funding allocations, programs, outcomes,

and other requested information associated with the federal rural health transformation program

grant.

SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Act becomes effective immediately upon its filing with
the secretary of state.

Page No. 3
