The House Committee on Governmental Affairs offers the following substitute to HB 812:

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Chapter 2 of Title 8 and Chapter 7 of Title 12 of the Official Code of Georgia

Annotated, relating to state building, plumbing, and electrical codes and control of soil

erosion and sedimentation, respectively, so as to require that certain local governments

establish and maintain publicly accessible websites posting real-time status updates relating

to building permit applications; to provide for an optional records management system

managed by a third party; to provide for construction; to revise regulatory requirements for

building plans, permits, and applications; to allow for greater involvement of private

professional providers in the review of plans, permits, and applications; to provide for

automatic approval of approved inspection reports; to provide for required qualifications of

private professional providers; to require that each local issuing authority publish a list of

materials required for permit applications; to revise provisions regarding denial or

nonacceptance of permits; to require local issuing authorities to provide rejected permit

applicants with a written list of reasons for denial within specified time frames; to provide

for related matters; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Chapter 2 of Title 8 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to state building,

plumbing, and electrical codes, is amended by revising paragraph (6) of subsection (c) of

Code Section 8-2-25, relating to application of minimum standard codes, local adoption and

requirements, and exemptions, as follows:

"(6) The department shall maintain a file of all amendments to the state minimum

standard codes adopted by the various municipalities and counties in the this state, which

information shall be made available to the public upon request. The department may

charge reasonable fees for copies of such information be published on the department's

website and updated in real time to include the department's determinations relating to

all proposed local amendments to the state minimum standard codes. An index of such

amendments shall be included in each new edition of a state minimum standard code."

SECTION 2.

Said chapter is further amended by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"8-2-25.1.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:

(1) 'Building permit' means any permit, approval, or authorization issued by a local

government relating to the construction, alteration, expansion, demolition, or substantial

renovation of a structure, including any permit for land-disturbing activity as such term

is defined in Code Section 12-7-3.

(2) 'Local government' means any county or municipal government of this state.

(3) 'Real-time' means updated contemporaneously with, or within one business day of,

any change in the status of a building permit.

(4) 'Status' means the current stage of review or action on a building permit application.

(b) Beginning January 1, 2027, each local government that issued more than 250 building

permits in the preceding calendar year shall maintain a publicly accessible website for

applications that provides real-time status information for all building permits for which

an application has been submitted and not finally closed. Such website shall, at a

minimum, display the following information for each building permit application:

(1) Permit application number;

(2) Date of application submission;

(3) Property address or parcel identification number;

(4) Type of permit requested;

(5) Current status of the permit application, including, but not limited to: submitted,

under review, incomplete, additional information required, approved, issued, suspended,

denied, or closed;

(6) Date of the most recent status update;

(7) Any failures to meet deadlines for approval or denial established by state or local

law;

(8) The statutory basis for any denials; and

(9) Identification of the reviewing department or office.

(c) The permit application status information posted pursuant to subsection (b) of this

Code section shall be:

(1) Searchable by permit number, address, or parcel identification number;

(2) Available to the public without charge, registration, or log in; and

(3) Presented in a format that is continuously accessible and reasonably useable by the

general public.

(d) A local government may satisfy the requirements of subsections (b) and (c) of this

Code section by posting a direct link on its publicly accessible website to a records

management system managed by a third party, provided such system complies with all

requirements of subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section.

(e) This Code section shall not be construed to alter substantive permitting standards,

review timelines, or appeal rights otherwise provided by law, or to require the disclosure

of information protected from public disclosure under state or federal law or personal

identifying information of permit applicants beyond that which is otherwise publicly

available under state law."

SECTION 3.

Said chapter is further amended by revising paragraphs (1), (3), (5), (12), (14), and (23) of

subsection (g) of Code Section 8-2-26, relating to local enforcement, inspectors, and building

permits, as follows:

"(g)(1) As used in this subsection, the term:

(A) 'Complete application' means a submitted plan, application, or request for

inspection that contains all of the information and supporting documentation required

by the county or municipality for it to make the determination as to whether the plan,

application, or request is in compliance with regulatory requirements.

(B) 'Private professional provider' means a:

(i)

Chapter 15 of Title 43;

(ii) Professional architect who holds a certificate of registration issued under

Chapter 4 of Title 43; or

(iii) Qualified inspector as such term is defined in Code Section 8-2-26.1

who is not an employee of or otherwise affiliated with or financially interested in the

person, firm, or corporation engaged in the construction project to be reviewed or

inspected.

(C) 'Regulatory fee' means payments, whether designated as permit fees, application

fees, or by another name, that are required by a local government as an exercise of its

police power, its regulation of business, and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of

construction related activities under this chapter.

Professional engineer who holds a certificate of registration issued under

(D) 'Regulatory requirements' means the requirements determined by a county or

municipality to be of federal, state, or local laws, codes, regulations, and ordinances

which are necessary for approval of plans, permits, or applications under this chapter;

provided, however, that, with respect to any application, such requirements shall

include the state minimum standard codes most recently adopted by the Department of

Community Affairs and any locally properly adopted local ordinances and amendments

to such codes; applicable zoning ordinances and zoning conditions; design standards;

and other state and local laws, regulations, and ordinances applicable to the application

in question."

"(3) No later than five business days after receipt of any application related to regulatory

requirements, a local building official of a county or municipality shall notify each

applicant as to whether the submitted documents meet the requirements of a complete

application. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, time spent by a county or

municipality determining whether an application is complete shall count toward the total

days for plan review or inspection. If a local building official determines that the

application is not complete or is denied, the applicant shall be provided written notice

identifying the items that are not complete or that form the basis for a denial, with

citations in either instance to the specific regulatory requirements with which the

application does not comply. The 30 day time period is tolled when the application is

rejected as incomplete. If within 30 days after the county or municipality has provided

notice that the application is incomplete the permit applicant submits revisions to address

the identified deficiencies, the local building official shall have an additional five

business days to review the application for completeness."

"(5) Prior to filing any application related to regulatory requirements or at any time

thereafter, The the applicant shall have the option of retaining, at its own expense, a

private professional provider to provide the required plan review or inspection in

accordance with the provisions of this Code section irrespective regardless of whether the

county or municipality determines that the personnel employed or contracted by such

county or municipality can provide regulatory action or inspection services within the

time frames required under paragraph (4) of this subsection or whether the applicant has

been notified of such determinations. If the applicant elects to utilize the services of a

private professional provider, the regulatory fees associated with such regulatory action

shall be reduced by 50 percent and such reduced amount shall be paid to the county or

municipality in accordance with such jurisdiction's policies."

"(12) The private professional provider shall be empowered to perform any plan review

or inspection required by the governing authority of any county or municipality,

including, but not limited to, erosion and sediment control plan review, inspections for

footings, foundations, concrete slabs, framing, electrical, plumbing, heating ventilation

and air conditioning (HVAC), or any and all other plan reviews or inspections necessary

or required to determine compliance with all regulatory requirements and for the issuance

of a permit for land-disturbing activity, as such term is defined in Code Section 12-7-3,

building permit or certificate of occupancy by the governing authority of any county or

municipality, provided that the plan review or inspection is within the scope of such

private professional provider's area of competency; and provided, further, that a qualified

inspector acting as a private professional provider shall only be empowered to perform

a plan review or inspection within an area for which such qualified inspector has been

issued a certification, license, or completion of training provided for in paragraph (2) of

subsection (a) of Code Section 8-2-26.1 or Code Section 12-7-19 for plan reviews or

inspections under Chapter 7 of Title 12 to be performed by a private professional

provider. Nothing in this Code section shall authorize any private professional provider

to issue a certificate of occupancy. Only a local governing authority shall be authorized

to issue a certificate of occupancy."

"(14) Upon submission by the private professional provider of a copy of his or her an

approved inspection report to the local governing authority, said local governing authority

shall be required to accept the inspection of the private professional provider without the

necessity of further inspection or approval by the inspectors or other personnel employed

by the local governing authority unless said such inspection shall be deemed approved

as a matter of law. governing authority has notified the private professional provider,

within two The local governing authority shall have five business days after the

submission of the inspection report, that it finds the report incomplete or the inspection

inadequate and has provided the private professional provider to notify the private

professional provider of any deficiencies in such inspection report with a written

description of the such deficiencies and specific regulatory requirements that have not

been adequately addressed. The private professional provider shall submit a corrected

inspection report after receiving notice from the local governing authority of deficiencies

in such inspection report, but in no event shall any deficiency in an inspection report or

a correction to such report prevent the completion of work that has been approved by the

private professional provider or otherwise delay the progress of the project related to the

private professional provider's inspection."

"(23)

Section 8-2-26.1. The process for plan reviews and inspections by a private professional

provider set forth in this subsection shall also be available and applicable to plan reviews

and inspections subject to Chapter 7 of Title 12 that are performed by a private

professional provider."

Nothing in this subsection shall apply to inspections exempted in Code

SECTION 4.

Said chapter is further amended by revising subsection (g) of Code Section 8-2-26.1, relating

to qualified inspectors and inspection reports, as follows:

"(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to apply to inspections for compliance

with a state or local fire safety standard or erosion control standard."

SECTION 5.

Chapter 7 of Title 12 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to control of soil

erosion and sedimentation, is amended by revising Code Section 12-7-9, relating to

applications for permits, erosion and sediment control plans and data, and time for issuance

or denial, as follows:

"12-7-9.

(a) Applications for permits shall be submitted in accordance with this chapter and the

rules and regulations, ordinances, and resolutions adopted pursuant to this chapter. Such

applications shall be accompanied by the applicant's erosion and sediment control plans

and by such supportive data as will affirmatively demonstrate that the land-disturbing

activity proposed will be carried out in such a manner that the minimum requirements set

forth in Code Section 12-7-6 shall be met. All applications shall contain a certification

stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof his or her designee visited the site

prior to creation of the plan or that such a visit was not required in accordance with rules

and regulations established by the board.

(b) Each local issuing authority shall publish on a website accessible to the public an

objective list of materials and stylistic preferences required for the submission of a

complete permit application. No permit shall be issued to any applicant unless the local

issuing authority affirmatively determines that the plan embracing such activities meets the

requirements of Code Section 12-7-6. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance

of the land disturbance permit by the local issuing authority.

(c) Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable after the application therefor

has been filed with the local issuing authority, but in any event not later than 45 days

thereafter after such filing. Within five days of the filing of any permit application, the

local issuing authority shall determine whether the application is complete and accepted.

If no such determination has been made within five days of the filing of any permit

application, the application shall be deemed complete and accepted. A local issuing

authority may only deem an application incomplete or deny an application when it fails to

include the required materials or stylistic preferences published by a local authority

pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section. In the event that an application has been

denied or deemed incomplete and not accepted and the applicant thereafter resubmits the

application in modified form to address deficiencies identified in the stated reasons for

denial or nonacceptance pursuant to this subsection and subsection (a) of Code

Section 12-7-11, then the local issuing authority shall cause the permit to be issued or

denied as soon as practicable after such resubmission, but in any event not later than 14

days after such resubmission for applications that were denied and not later than five days

after such resubmission for applications that were not accepted.

(d) If a local issuing authority requires compliance with additional regulatory requirements

by the applicant beyond erosion and sediment control, including, but not limited to, utility

and storm-water management, that are subject to the approval of such local issuing

authority, such local issuing authority shall comply with the review time frames imposed

in subsection (c) of this Code section; provided, however, that time shall be tolled under

such time frames from the date any local issuing authority submits materials to a state

agency or agencies for mandatory review and approval until the local issuing authority

receives the required information or approval from the reviewing state agency or agencies.

(e) An applicant shall have the option of retaining, at its own expense, a private

professional provider to perform the plan reviews and inspections required by this chapter

utilizing the process set forth in subsection (g) of Code Section 8-2-26 for engaging a

private professional provider to perform plan reviews and inspections; provided, however,

that the provisions of paragraphs (2), (3), and (6) of subsection (g) of Code Section 8-2-26

shall not be applicable to such process. For purposes of plan reviews and inspections

performed pursuant to this chapter, a private professional provider shall be subject to the

requirements of Code Section 12-7-19 and shall be:

(1) A design professional in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture,

forestry, geology, or land surveying who is licensed as required for practice in this state

by the applicable provisions of Title 43 related to such profession; or

(2) A person with a current certification as a Certified Professional in Erosion and

Sediment Control."

SECTION 6.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 12-7-11, relating to statement of

reasons for denial of permit required, conditions for approval, and suspension, revocation,

or modification of permit, as follows:

"12-7-11.

(a) Within the time frames specified by Code Section 12-7-9, the local issuing authority

shall issue or deny the permit. The local issuing authority, upon denial of a permit, shall

state its reasons for the denial, setting forth specifically wherein where such application is

found to be deficient. No local issuing authority shall deny or deem incomplete and not

accept an application for any reason other than the failure to comply with required

materials or stylistic preferences published by a local authority pursuant to subsection (b)

of Code Section 12-7-9 or federal, state, or local law. Concurrently with denial or

nonacceptance of an application, the local issuing authority shall provide the applicant with

a written list identifying the items that are not complete or that form the basis for a denial,

with citations to the specific regulatory requirements with which the application does not

comply. Such local issuing authority shall not be required to provide the applicant with the

reasons for such denial or nonacceptance for any portion of an application which is

incomplete under subsection (b) or (c) of Code Section 12-7-7; provided, however, that the

local issuing authority shall notify the applicant that the application is incomplete and shall

include in such notification a written list of the omissions rendering the application

incomplete. Should the applicant make material additions to a resubmitted application that

are unrelated to the cited reasons for the denial or nonacceptance of the original

application, the local issuing authority may also address such additions in reviewing the

resubmitted application. Material additions to any resubmitted application that are

unrelated to the cited reasons for the denial or nonacceptance of the original application

shall be considered a new application for purposes related to the review time frames

prescribed in subsection (c) of Code Section 12-7-9. Any land-disturbing activity

permitted under this chapter shall be carried out in accordance with this chapter and the

ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to this

chapter. The local issuing authority shall specify on the permit the conditions under which

the activity may be undertaken.

(b) The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the local issuing authority, as

to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon a finding that the holder or his

or her successor in title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sediment

control plan or that the holder or his or her successor in title is in violation of this chapter

or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted or promulgated pursuant to this

chapter. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him or her as to all or

any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the

permit."

SECTION 7.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
