LC 47 4107S

The House Committee on Governmental Affairs offers the following substitute to HB 1177:

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Chapter 62 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

development authorities, so as to provide that certain affordable housing uses of property

qualify as projects that may be undertaken by development authorities; to provide for

legislative findings and declarations; to provide for related matters; to repeal conflicting

laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

The General Assembly finds and declares that there is a significant shortage in housing stock

that is affordable by households making less than the median annual household income of

various parts of this state, and that the lack of such housing stock is inhibiting the

development of trade, commerce, industry, or employment opportunities in this state. The

General Assembly further finds and declares that reducing the shortage of such housing stock

will support the development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities

and be beneficial to the welfare of the people of this state.

H. B. 1177 (SUB)

LC 47 4107S

SECTION 2.

Chapter 62 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to development

authorities, is amended in paragraph (6) of Code Section 36-62-2, relating to definitions, by

striking "; and" at the end of subparagraph (M), by replacing the period at the end of

subparagraph (N) with "; and", and by adding a new subparagraph to read as follows:

"(O) The acquisition, construction, improvement, modification, leasing, or financing

of real or personal property for single-family, two-family, or multifamily residential

uses which will further the development of trade, commerce, industry, or employment

opportunities in this state, provided that no such project as defined by this subparagraph

shall be undertaken by an authority unless the authority determines that the occupancy

or residential use of such property shall be primarily by households that have an annual

gross household income that does not exceed 175 percent of the federal poverty level,

and further determines that a firm or corporation has demonstrated the reasonable need

for workforce housing in the county or municipal corporation which activated such

authority pursuant to Code Section 36-62-4."

SECTION 3.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.

H. B. 1177 (SUB)
