House File 2788 - Introduced
HOUSE FILE 2788
BY COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
(SUCCESSOR TO HF 2563)
(SUCCESSOR TO HSB 704)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to abortions including informed consent,
dispensing abortion-inducing drugs, and reporting
abortion-inducing drug complications.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 5778HZ (2) 91
ak/ko

DIVISION I
ABORTION —— DEFINED
Section 1. Section 146B.1, subsection 1, Code 2026, is
amended to read as follows:
1. “Abortion” means the termination of a human pregnancy
with the intent other than to produce a live birth or to
remove a dead fetus. “Abortion” does not include a spontaneous
termination of pregnancy, commonly known as a miscarriage, if
not all the products of conception are expelled.
DIVISION II
INFORMED CONSENT
Sec. 2. Section 146A.1, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 1A. Prior to performing an abortion,
a physician shall perform an in-person examination of the
pregnant woman including screening for indicia of coercion or
abuse. A physician shall, if necessary, refer the woman to an
appropriate health care provider for treatment consistent with
the examination results.
Sec. 3. Section 146A.1, subsection 6, Code 2026, is amended
by adding the following new paragraphs:
NEW PARAGRAPH. 0a. “Abortion” means the same as defined in
section 146B.1.
NEW PARAGRAPH. 00a. “Health care provider” means a
person who is licensed, certified, or otherwise authorized or
permitted by the laws of this state to administer health care
in the ordinary course of business or in the practice of a
profession.
NEW PARAGRAPH. 0b. “Physician” means the same as defined
in section 146B.1.
Sec. 4. NEW SECTION. 146A.2 Dispensing abortion-inducing
drugs —— licensee discipline.
1. As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires:
a. “Abortion-inducing drug” means the same as defined in

ak/ko

1/11

section 146F.1.
b. “Chemical abortion” means the same as defined in section
146F.1.
c. “Dispense” means the same as defined in section 146F.1.
d. “Medical emergency” means the same as defined in section
146A.1.
e. “Pregnant” or “pregnancy” means the human female
reproductive condition of having a living unborn child within
the pregnant woman’s body throughout every stage of the unborn
child’s life and development, from fertilization to full
gestation and childbirth.
2. A physician who is performing or attempting to perform
a chemical abortion shall do all of the following prior to
prescribing or dispensing an abortion-inducing drug to a
pregnant woman:
a. Obtain the signature of the woman on the United States
food and drug administration patient agreement form required
for each abortion-inducing drug authorized to be manufactured
or sold in the United States.
b. Obtain written confirmation from the woman that the woman
has been informed of all of the following information:
(1) The gestational age-specific risks of abortion-inducing
drugs.
(2) The risks related to the specific abortion-inducing
drug or drugs to be used, including hemorrhage, failure to
remove all tissue of the unborn child, sepsis, sterility, and
possible continuation of the pregnancy.
(3) That the United States federal food and drug
administration recommends that the pregnant woman follow up
with the woman’s health care provider approximately seven
to fourteen calendar days after the administration of an
abortion-inducing drug to confirm complete termination of
pregnancy has occurred and to evaluate the degree of bleeding.
(4) That women using abortion-inducing drugs have suffered
trauma from seeing the remains of the unborn child in the

ak/ko

2/11

process of a chemical abortion.
c. Advise the pregnant woman how to access emergency
surgical intervention in case of an incomplete abortion, severe
bleeding, or other medical complications.
3. Subsection 2 shall not apply to a chemical abortion
performed in a medical emergency.
4. This section shall not be construed to impose civil or
criminal liability on a woman upon whom a chemical abortion has
been performed.
5. A physician who fails to comply with this section is
subject to licensee discipline under chapter 148.
6. The board of medicine shall adopt rules pursuant to
chapter 17A to administer this section.
DIVISION III
DISPENSING AND REPORTING —— ABORTION-INDUCING DRUGS
Sec. 5. NEW SECTION. 146F.1 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires:
1. “Abortion-inducing drug” means any of the following:
a. Mifepristone.
b. Misoprostol.
c. Any other drug, measure, or chemical approved by the
United States food and drug administration when prescribed or
administered with the intent to terminate the pregnancy of a
woman known to be pregnant. “Abortion-inducing drug” includes
off-label use of a drug known to have abortion-inducing
properties, which is prescribed with the intent of causing an
abortion. “Abortion-inducing drug” does not include drugs that
may be known to cause an abortion but that are prescribed for
other medical conditions.
2. “Abortion-inducing drug complication” means any physical
or psychological condition which, in the reasonable medical
judgment of a health care provider, may occur as a primary or
secondary result of the patient’s use of abortion-inducing
drugs including but not limited to:

ak/ko

3/11

a. Uterine rupture, bleeding, or hemorrhage.
b. Failure to actually terminate the pregnancy.
c. Incomplete abortion or retained tissue.
d. Missed ectopic pregnancy.
e. Infection.
f. Sepsis.
3. “Chemical abortion” means an abortion performed by the
administration or use of an abortion-inducing drug.
4. “Department” means the department of health and human
services.
5. “Dispense” means to distribute, administer, or send an
abortion-inducing drug to the ultimate user.
6. “Health care provider” means the same as defined in
section 146A.1.
7. “Health care setting” means a pharmacy, clinic, medical
office, or hospital.
8. “Hospital” means the same as defined in section 135B.1.
9. “Interested party” means any of the following persons:
a. A woman upon whom a chemical abortion was performed or
attempted.
b. The personal representative of a woman upon whom a
chemical abortion was performed or attempted.
10. “Medical emergency” means the same as defined in section
146A.1.
11. “Personal representative” means an administrator or
an executor, or if there is no such personal representative
appointed, then a person legally authorized to perform
substantially the same functions.
12. “Physician” means the same as defined in section 146B.1.
13. “Postfertilization age” means the same as defined in
section 146B.1.
14. “Pregnancy” or “pregnant” means the same as defined in
section 146A.2.
15. “Rural emergency hospital” means the same as defined in
section 135B.1.

ak/ko

4/11

Sec. 6. NEW SECTION. 146F.2 Dispensing of abortion-inducing
drugs —— restrictions.
1. A person shall not dispense an abortion-inducing drug in
this state unless all of the following criteria are met:
a. The drug is dispensed in a health care setting directly
to the woman prescribed the drug.
b. The person dispensing the drug is authorized to do so
pursuant to section 147.107.
2. Subsection 1 does not apply to the dispensing of an
abortion-inducing drug in response to a medical emergency.
Sec. 7. NEW SECTION. 146F.3 Abortion-inducing drug
complication —— reporting.
1. a. Within thirty calendar days of the date of discharge
or death of a woman who presented with or was treated for
an abortion-inducing drug complication, a hospital, rural
emergency hospital, or an attending physician shall file a
report with the department. The report shall be in a form
prescribed by the department and include a list of the most
common abortion complications and the most recent international
classification of diseases code as maintained by the world
health organization for each. The report must be completed and
signed by the woman’s attending physician and contain all of
the following information:
(1) The age of the woman who presented with or was treated
for an abortion-inducing drug complication.
(2) The state and county of residence of the woman who
presented with or was treated for an abortion-inducing drug
complication.
(3) The date the abortion-inducing drug was used by the
woman.
(4) The probable postfertilization age of the unborn child
on the date of the abortion-inducing drug complication.
(5) The identity of the physician who performed the
chemical abortion, the facility where the chemical abortion was
performed, and the referring physician, agency, or service, if

ak/ko

5/11

any.
(6) The specific complication or complications that led to
the treatment and the most recent international classification
of diseases code for each complication as maintained by the
world health organization, if applicable.
b. A report shall not contain the name of the woman or
other information or identifiers that would make it possible to
identify the woman who suffered the reported abortion-inducing
drug complication.
2. A report filed pursuant to subsection 1 shall be
confidential and not subject to disclosure under chapter 22.
3. a. On or before December 31, 2026, and every calendar
year thereafter, the department shall prepare a comprehensive
statistical report based upon the aggregated data gathered from
reports filed pursuant to subsection 1 for the immediately
preceding calendar year. The aggregated data shall be
anonymized to prevent public disclosure of either of the
following:
(1) The hospital, rural emergency hospital, or attending
physician that filed a report.
(2) The woman about whom a report was filed.
b. The anonymized aggregated data shall be made available to
the public by the department in a downloadable format on the
department’s internet site.
Sec. 8. NEW SECTION. 146F.4 Private cause of action ——
civil liability.
1. A person who dispenses an abortion-inducing drug
in violation of section 146F.2 shall be civilly liable
to any interested party for all damages caused by the
abortion-inducing drug. A person who is subject to licensee
discipline under chapter 148 or 155A shall be immune from civil
liability under this section.
2. In addition to compensatory or punitive damages, a
prevailing plaintiff who brings an action under this section is
entitled to court costs and reasonable attorney fees.

ak/ko

6/11

3. In an action brought under this section, the name and
other identifying characteristics of a woman who sought or
obtained an abortion-inducing drug shall be redacted without
a court order from all pleadings and documents filed in the
action. The court may make further orders as necessary to
protect the identity and privacy of the woman who sought or
obtained an abortion-inducing drug.
4. This section shall not be construed to impose civil or
criminal liability on a woman upon whom a chemical abortion is
performed.
Sec. 9. NEW SECTION. 146F.5 Licensee discipline.
A licensee who fails to comply with this chapter is subject
to licensee discipline under chapter 148 or 155A.
DIVISION IV
ABORTION-RELATED PROVISIONS
Sec. 10. Section 144.29A, subsection 1, paragraph k, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
k. The method used for an induced termination, including
whether mifepristone or misoprostol was used.
Sec. 11. Section 144.29A, subsection 1, Code 2026, is
amended by adding the following new paragraph:
NEW PARAGRAPH. l. If a spontaneous termination of
pregnancy, whether the patient ingested mifepristone or
misoprostol within fourteen calendar days prior to the date of
the spontaneous termination of pregnancy.
Sec. 12. Section 144.29A, subsection 7, paragraph c, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
c. “Spontaneous termination of pregnancy”, commonly known
as a miscarriage, means the occurrence of an unintended
termination of pregnancy at any time during the period from
conception to twenty weeks gestation and which is not a
spontaneous termination of pregnancy at any time during the
period from twenty weeks or greater which is reported to the
department as a fetal death under this chapter.
EXPLANATION

ak/ko

7/11

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill relates to abortions, including informed
consent, dispensing of abortion-inducing drugs, and reporting
abortion-inducing drug complications.
DIVISION I —— ABORTION DEFINED. The bill excludes
a spontaneous termination of pregnancy, if not all the
products of conception are expelled, from the definition of
abortion for the purpose of the reporting requirements and
penalties on abortions under Code chapter 146B (abortion ——
postfertilization age).
DIVISION II —— INFORMED CONSENT. Under the bill, a
physician, prior to performing or attempting to perform an
abortion, is required to perform an in-person examination of
the woman seeking an abortion, including screening for indicia
of coercion or abuse; if necessary, the physician shall make a
referral to an appropriate health care provider consistent with
the examination results.
The bill requires a physician who is performing or
attempting to perform a chemical abortion, prior to prescribing
or dispensing an abortion-inducing drug, to do all of the
following: have the woman being prescribed or dispensed the
drug sign a patient agreement form, obtain written confirmation
that the physician has informed the woman of specific health
and safety information related to abortion-inducing drugs
as detailed in the bill, and advise the pregnant woman how
to access emergency surgical intervention in cases of an
incomplete abortion, severe bleeding, or other medical
complications. The bill specifies that these requirements
shall not apply to a chemical abortion performed in response to
a medical emergency. The bill provides that the prohibition on
dispensing of abortion-inducing drugs shall not be construed
to impose civil or criminal liability on a woman upon whom
a chemical abortion has been performed. Under the bill,
a physician who fails to comply with the informed consent

ak/ko

8/11

requirements is subject to licensee discipline. The bill
requires the board of medicine to adopt rules to administer
this division of the bill. The bill defines “abortion-inducing
drug”, “chemical abortion”, “dispense”, “medical emergency”,
and “pregnant” or “pregnancy”.
DIVISION III —— DISPENSING AND REPORTING ——
ABORTION-INDUCING DRUGS. The bill defines “abortion-inducing
drug”, “abortion-inducing drug complication”, “chemical
abortion”, “dispense”, “health care setting”, “interested
party”, “medical emergency”, “physician”, “postfertilization
age”, and “rural emergency hospital”.
The bill prohibits a person from dispensing an
abortion-inducing drug in this state unless the drug is
dispensed in a health care setting directly to the woman
prescribed the drug, and the person dispensing the drug is
authorized to do so pursuant to Code section 147.107 (drug
dispensing, supplying, and prescribing —— limitations). These
requirements do not apply to a medical emergency.
The bill requires a hospital, rural emergency hospital, or
the attending physician to file a report with the department
of health and human services (HHS) using a prescribed form
within 30 days of discharge or death of a woman who presented
with or was treated for an abortion-inducing drug complication.
The form must be signed and completed by the attending
physician and contain the age of the woman experiencing the
abortion-inducing drug complication, the woman’s state and
county of residence, the date the abortion-inducing drug was
used by the woman, and the probable postfertilization age
of the unborn child at the time of the abortion-inducing
drug complication. The report must identify the physician
who performed the chemical abortion, the facility where the
chemical abortion was performed, the referring physician,
agency, or service, if any, and the specific complication or
complications that led to the treatment performed along with
the most recent international classification of diseases code

ak/ko

9/11

for each, if applicable. The report shall be confidential and
not subject to disclosure under Code chapter 22 (open records).
The bill also requires HHS to prepare annually on or
before December 31 a comprehensive statistical report based
upon the aggregated data gathered from the reports filed on
abortion-inducing drug complications. Under the bill, the data
gathered by HHS must be anonymized to prevent public disclosure
of either the physician or hospital that filed a report, or the
woman about whom a report is filed. HHS is required to make the
anonymized data publicly available in a downloadable format on
its internet site.
This division of the bill imposes civil liabilities on any
person who dispenses an abortion-inducing drug in violation
of this division of the bill for all damages caused by the
abortion-inducing drug suffered by a woman upon whom a chemical
abortion was performed or was attempted or the personal
representative of the woman upon whom a chemical abortion was
performed or was attempted. A licensed pharmacist or physician
is immune from civil liability. The bill defines “personal
representative” as an administrator or an executor, or if there
is no such personal representative appointed, then a person
legally authorized to perform substantially the same functions.
A prevailing plaintiff in an action brought under this division
of the bill, in addition to compensatory and punitive damages,
is entitled to court costs and reasonable attorney fees. In
an action brought under this division of the bill, the name
and other identifying characteristics of a woman who sought or
obtained an abortion-inducing drug shall be redacted from all
pleadings and documents filed in the action without a court
order, and the court may make further orders as necessary to
protect the identity and privacy of the woman who sought or
obtained an abortion-inducing drug. This division of the bill
is not to be construed to impose civil or criminal liability
upon a woman upon whom a chemical abortion is performed.
Under the bill, a licensed pharmacist or physician that

ak/ko

10/11

fails to comply with this division of the bill is subject to
licensee discipline.
DIVISION IV —— ABORTION-RELATED PROVISIONS. The bill amends
Code section 144.29A (termination of pregnancy reporting ——
legislative intent) to require a health care provider that
diagnoses or induces a spontaneous termination of pregnancy
to include in the required report to HHS if mifepristone or
misoprostol was used to induce a spontaneous termination of
pregnancy. Current law requires the health care provider to
only disclose if mifepristone was used to induce a spontaneous
termination of pregnancy. The bill also requires the health
care provider to disclose whether mifepristone or misoprostol
were ingested by the patient within 14 days prior to the
spontaneous termination of pregnancy.

ak/ko

11/11
