SB221 INTRODUCED

SB221

CXSA5WW-1

By Senator Orr

RFD: Finance and Taxation Education

First Read: 29-Jan-26

Page 0

CXSA5WW-1 01/06/2026 MRF (F)MRF 2025-3817

SYNOPSIS:
Under existing law, credit card transaction fees

are included in sales and use tax calculations for

purchases.

This bill would provide that a credit card

transaction fee is excluded from sales and use tax

calculations on the price of goods and services

purchased by credit or debit card.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to sales and use tax; to exclude credit card

transaction fees added to the price of goods or services

purchased by credit or debit card from the calculation of

sales and use taxes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. (a) As used in this section, the following
terms have the following meanings:
(1) CREDIT CARD. Any card, plate, coupon book, or other

credit device existing for the purpose of obtaining money,

property, labor, or services on credit. The term shall also

mean any card or other payment code or device issued or
Page 1

SB221 INTRODUCED

approved for use through a payment card network to debit an

asset account, regardless of the purpose for which the account

is established, whether authorization is based on signature,

personal identification number, or other means. The term

includes a general-use prepaid card, as defined in 15 U.S.C. §

16931-1(a)(2)(A). The term does not include paper checks.

(2) ELECTRONIC PAYMENT TRANSACTION. A transaction in

which a person uses a debit card, credit card, or other

payment code or device issued or approved through a payment

card network to debit a deposit account or use a line of

credit, whether authorization is based on a signature,

personal identification number, or other means.

(3) CREDIT CARD TRANSACTION FEE. A fee assessed on

purchases made by debit or credit card to offset interchange

fees charged to a merchant or seller.

(b) The amount of any credit card transaction fee

charged for an electronic payment transaction shall be

excluded from the amount on which basis sales and use tax is

assessed for that electronic payment transaction.

(c) The Department of Revenue shall establish rules to
administer the provisions of this act.
Section 2. This act shall become effective on September
1, 2026.

Page 2
