Senate Bill 570
By: Senators Still of the 48th, Anavitarte of the 31st, Albers of the 56th, Kirkpatrick of the
32nd and Dixon of the 45th
AS PASSED
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Article 1 of Chapter 21 of Title 43 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated,

relating to rights, duties, and liabilities of innkeepers, so as to provide for a required human

trafficking training program for inns and short-term rental properties; to provide for

definitions; to provide for training policies and procedures; to provide for the retention of

certain records; to provide for limitations; to provide for penalties; to provide for exemptions;

to provide a short title; to provide for related matters; to provide an effective date; to repeal

conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Georgia Human Trafficking Prevention

Training Act."

SECTION 2.

Article 1 of Chapter 21 of Title 43 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

rights, duties, and liabilities of innkeepers, is amended by adding a new Code section to read

as follows:

"43-21-16.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:

(1) 'Hosting platform' means an electronic platform used to advertise or facilitate the

rental of a short-term rental property.

(2) 'Human trafficking' means an offense provided for in Code Section 16-5-46. Such

term shall include the use of force, fraud, or coercion to obtain some type of labor or

commercial sex act as defined in 22 U.S.C. Section 7102.

(3) 'Human trafficking awareness training' means a course developed or approved by the

office, in consultation with the Georgia Hotel and Lodging Association, the Criminal

Justice Coordinating Council, and hosting platforms.

(4) 'Office' means the office of the Attorney General.

(5) 'Short-term rental property' means a residential unit used or offered for tourist or

transient use through a hosting platform and managed by a third-party property manager.

(6) 'Third-party property manager' means a property management company, rental

management service, or any other entity or an individual that provides services for a

short-term rental property, such as marketing, guest communications, check-in

procedures, cleaning, or maintenance on behalf of the property owner of such short-term

rental property for compensation. This term shall not include a hosting platform.

(b)(1) All on-site employees of an inn and every third-party property manager of a

short-term rental property in this state shall be required to receive annual human

trafficking awareness training within 60 days of employment and on an annual basis

thereafter, with the training being completed by December 31 during the first full year

of employment.

(2) The training requirements contained in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not

apply to an inn employee or a third-party property manager of a short-term rental

property who has completed human trafficking awareness training that meets the criteria

set forth in this Code section within the 12 month period prior to July 1, 2026, and

provides a record of completion to the owner, operator, or manager of the inn or

short-term rental property.

(c) The office shall, in consultation with the Georgia Hotel and Lodging Association, the

Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, and hosting platforms, develop human trafficking

awareness training or identify existing training courses that include, but are not limited to,

the following:

(1) The definition of human trafficking and commercial exploitation of children;

(2) Guidance on how to identify individuals at risk for human trafficking;

(3) Guidance on how to identify the signs of human trafficking and individuals

potentially engaged in the act of human trafficking;

(4) The differences between labor and sex trafficking as such terms relate to the inn

industry;

(5) Guidance on the role of hospitality employees in reporting and responding to this

issue; and

(6) The contact information for the National Human Trafficking Hotline or local law

enforcement agency.

(d) Every owner, operator, or manager of an inn or short-term rental property in this state

shall implement procedures and adopt policies for the reporting of suspected human

trafficking to the National Human Trafficking Hotline or local law enforcement agency.

(e) Every owner, operator, or manager of an inn or a short-term rental property in this state

shall comply with the posting requirements in Code Section 16-5-47, and the sheriff of the

county or the local law enforcement agency where such inn or short-term rental property

is located or the municipal police department having jurisdiction over such location shall

assist in enforcement of such posting requirements.

(f) Any person who operates an inn or short-term rental property in this state shall

maintain records of employee training acknowledgments. Such records shall be retained

by the inn or short-term rental property for the period during which the employee is

employed by such inn or short-term rental property and for one year after such employment

ends. An inn or short-term rental property shall provide records to the office no later than

ten business days after such request is made in writing by such office.

(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed as creating a private cause of action

against an inn, or its employees, for any act or omission arising out of the requirements of

this Code section or in any way limiting or impairing the rights or remedies which are

otherwise available to a victim of human trafficking under any other law.

(h)(1) The office may impose against any owner, operator, or manager of an inn or a

short-term rental property who willfully and knowingly violates the requirements of this

Code section an administrative penalty of:

(A) For a first violation, $500.00;

(B) For a second violation, $1,000.00; and

(C) For a third or subsequent violation, $2,000.00.

(2) The clear proceeds of administrative penalties assessed pursuant to this subsection

shall be remitted to the office.

(i) This Code section shall not apply to short-term rental properties:

(1) That are managed directly and exclusively by the individual property owner or

owners; provided, however, that this exemption shall apply regardless of whether such

property owner or owners use or does not use a hosting platform for such rental property;

or

(2) That are offered for rent for less than a total of 15 days per calendar year."

SECTION 3.
This Act shall become effective on July 1, 2026.
SECTION 4.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
