Senate File 2504 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2504
BY COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS
(SUCCESSOR TO SSB 3198)
(COMPANION TO HF 2797 BY
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to Brady-Giglio list appeals and law
enforcement officers’ rights, and providing effective date
and applicability provisions.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 6972SV (1) 91
as/js

S.F. 2504

Section 1. Section 80F.1, subsection 25, Code 2026, is
amended to read as follows:
25. An officer shall have the right to petition the
district court, appeal, or intervene in an action regarding
a prosecuting agency’s decision to place an officer on a
Brady-Giglio list. An officer placed on a Brady-Giglio list
by a prosecuting agency, regardless of when such placement,
action, or decision occurred, shall have the rights afforded
under this subsection. The district court shall have
jurisdiction over the review of the prosecuting agency’s
decision. The district court shall perform an in camera
review of the evidence and may hold a closed hearing upon the
request of the officer or prosecuting agency, or upon the
court’s own motion. The district court may affirm, modify,
or reverse a prosecuting agency’s decision, and issue orders
or provide relief, including removal of the officer from a
Brady-Giglio list, as justice may require. Evidence presented
to the district court shall be provided under seal and kept
confidential unless otherwise provided by law and ordered
by the district court. If the court finds in favor of the
officer under this subsection, upon application, the court
shall award the officer equitable relief, reasonable attorney
fees, expenses, and court costs. Any such award shall be paid
by the state or the municipality or county that employs or is
responsible for the prosecuting agency.
Sec. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Act, being deemed of immediate
importance, takes effect upon enactment.
Sec. 3. RETROACTIVE APPLICABILITY. This Act applies
retroactively to the placement of an officer on a Brady-Giglio
list and subsequent proceedings and orders occurring on and
after July 1, 2021.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill relates to Brady-Giglio list appeals and law

LSB 6972SV (1) 91
as/js

1/2

S.F. 2504

enforcement officers’ rights.
The bill provides that an officer placed on a Brady-Giglio
list by a prosecuting agency, regardless of when such
placement, action, or decision occurred, shall have the rights
afforded under the bill.
The bill provides that if an officer, after appealing a
decision placing the officer on a Brady-Giglio list, prevails,
the court shall award the officer equitable relief, reasonable
attorney fees, expenses, and court costs. Any such award shall
be paid by the state or the municipality or county that employs
or is responsible for the prosecuting agency.
The bill takes effect upon enactment.
The bill applies retroactively to the placement of an
officer on a Brady-Giglio list and subsequent proceedings and
orders occurring on and after July 1, 2021.

LSB 6972SV (1) 91
as/js

2/2
