LC 46 1522S

Senate Bill 444
By: Senators Kirkpatrick of the 32nd, Watson of the 1st, Hodges of the 3rd, Harbison of the
15th and Walker III of the 20th
AS PASSED
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Chapter 46 of Title 33 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

certification of private review agents, so as to provide that certain decisions with regard to

the provision of insurance coverage for healthcare services shall not be based solely on

artificial intelligence systems, artificial intelligence, or other software tools; to provide for

definitions; to provide for related matters; to provide for an effective date; to repeal

conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Chapter 46 of Title 33 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to certification of

private review agents, is amended by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"33-46-7.1.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:

(1) 'Artificial intelligence' means a machine based system that can, for a given set of

human defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing

real or virtual environments.

S. B. 444

LC 46 1522S

(2) 'Artificial intelligence system' means an engineered or machine based system that

emulates the capability of a person to receive audio, visual, text, or any other form of

information and use such information to emulate a human cognitive process, including,

but not limited to, learning, generalizing, reasoning, planning, predicting, acting, or

communicating; provided, however, that artificial intelligence systems may vary in the

forms of information they can receive and in the human cognitive processes they can

emulate.

(b) Private review agents and utilization review entities may use artificial intelligence

systems, artificial intelligence, or other software tools, provided that such systems or tools

are a part of a utilization review plan that is in accordance with the standards set forth in

this chapter and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commissioner.

(c) Artificial intelligence systems, artificial intelligence, and other software tools may be

used to automate tasks, reduce administrative burdens, participate in decision-making

processes, and perform other lawful functions; provided, however, that such systems shall

not issue an adverse determination to a patient until a natural person qualifying as a private

review agent or a utilization review entity conducts a utilization review in which a clinical

peer participates. In no event shall artificial intelligence systems, artificial intelligence, or

other software tools supersede the judgment of such clinical peer."

SECTION 2.

This Act shall become effective on January 1, 2027.

SECTION 3.

All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.

S. B. 444
