SECOND REGULAR SESSION

HOUSE BILL NO. 1742
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE MILLER.
4172H.01I

JOSEPH ENGLER, Chief Clerk

AN ACT
To amend chapter 1, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to companion
chatbots.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Chapter 1, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
known as section 1.2055, to read as follows:
1.2055. 1. As used in this section, the following terms mean:
(1) "Artificial intelligence", an engineered or machine-based system that varies
in its level of autonomy and that can, for explicit or implicit objectives, infer from the
input it receives how to generate outputs that can influence physical or virtual
environments;
(2) "Companion chatbot", an artificial intelligence system with a natural
language interface that provides adaptive, human-like responses to user inputs and is
capable of meeting a user's social needs, which includes exhibiting anthropomorphic
features and sustaining a relationship across multiple interactions. A "companion
chatbot" does not include the following:
(a) A bot that is used only for customer service, a business's operational purpose,
productivity, and analysis related to source information, internal research, or technical
assistance;
(b) A bot that is a feature of a video game and is limited to replies related to the
video game. Limited video game replies include replies that cannot discuss topics
related to mental health, self-harm, or sexually explicit conduct or maintain a dialogue
on other topics unrelated to the video game; or
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.

HB 1742

(c) A stand-alone consumer electronic device that functions as a speaker and
voice command interface, acts as a voice-activated virtual assistant, and does not sustain
a relationship across multiple interactions or generate outputs that are likely to elicit
emotional responses in the user;
(3) "Covered platform", any person who provides companion chatbot services to
a user in this state;
(4) "Minor", an individual under eighteen years of age.
2. It shall be unlawful for a person who owns or controls a website, application,
software, or program to allow a minor to access a companion chatbot for recreational,
relational, or companion purposes. A person who offers companion chatbot services for
recreational, relational, or companion purposes shall require an individual to provide
proof of the individual's age before allowing the individual to access a companion
chatbot. No companion chatbot shall be installed on any device assigned to, or regularly
used by, anyone who is a minor.
3. Any person who owns or controls a website, application, software, or
program:
(1) Shall not process data or design systems in ways that deceive or mislead users
of such website, application, software, or program regarding the nonhuman nature of
the companion chatbot;
(2) Shall implement and maintain reasonably effective systems to detect and
prevent emotional dependence of a user on a companion chatbot. Such systems shall
apply to any covered platform that utilizes a companion chatbot designed to generate
social connections with users, engages in extended conversations mimicking human
interactions, or provides emotional support or companionship; and
(3) Shall not implement or allow the use of a human-like avatar, including
cartoon- or anime-like representations of humans.
✔
