HB13

TB7KM15-1

By Representatives Yarbrough, Mooney, Butler, Whorton, Pettus,

Underwood, Colvin, Carns, Treadaway, Kiel, Stringer, Gidley,

Fidler, DuBose, Bolton

RFD: Judiciary

First Read: 13-Jan-26

PFD: 25-Jun-25

Page 0

TB7KM15-1 05/07/2025 THR (L) THR 2025-1890

SYNOPSIS:

Under existing law, the Attorney General may

enter into a memorandum of agreement with the United

States Department of Homeland Security concerning the

enforcement of federal immigration laws, detentions and

removals, and related investigations in this state by

certain state law enforcement officers as designated by

the Attorney General.

This bill would provide that state and local law

enforcement agencies may enter into memoranda of

understanding and agreements with the United States

Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland

Security, and any other federal agency for the purpose

of enforcing federal immigration and customs laws and

the detention, removal, and investigation of illegal

aliens and the immigration status of any individual in

this state.

This bill would require state and local

government employees to send, receive, and maintain

information relating to the immigration status of any

individual as required for public safety purposes.

This bill would allow state and local law

enforcement officers to transport an illegal alien to

the custody of the federal government.

This bill would allow state and local law
Page 1

enforcement officers to arrest an illegal alien based

on his or her status as an illegal alien or for a

violation of any federal immigration law.

This bill would provide standard procedures for

intake and booking of illegal aliens and foreign

nationals in county and municipal jails.

This bill would require county and municipal

jails to honor immigration detainer requests issued by

the Department of Homeland Security in certain

circumstances.

This bill would also require quarterly reports

by county and municipal jails regarding foreign

nationals.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to illegal immigration; to designate Sections

31-13-1 through 31-13-35 as Article 1 of Chapter 13 of Title

31, Code of Alabama 1975; to add Article 2, commencing with

Section 31-13-50, to Chapter 13 of Title 31, Code of Alabama

1975; to create the Laken Riley Act; to allow state and local

law enforcement agencies to enter into memoranda of

understanding and agreements with federal agencies to enforce

federal immigration laws; to provide procedures involving the

arrest, detention, and transportation of illegal aliens; to
Page 2

provide standard procedures for intake and booking of illegal

aliens and foreign nationals in county and municipal jails; to

require county and municipal jails to honor immigration

detainer requests in certain circumstances; and to require

county and municipal jails to prepare and report certain

information regarding foreign nationals.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. Sections 31-13-1 through 31-13-35 of Chapter

of Title 31, Code of Alabama 1975, are designated as

Article 1.

Section 2. Article 2, commencing with Section 31-13-50,

is added to Chapter 13 of Title 31, Code of Alabama 1975, to

read as follows:

Article 2.

§31-13-50

This article shall be known and may be cited as the

Laken Riley Act.

§31-13-51

As used in this article, the following words have the

following meanings:
(1) FOREIGN NATIONAL. An individual who is not a
citizen of the United States.

(2) ICE. United States Immigration and Customs

Enforcement Division of the Department of Homeland Security.

(3) ILLEGAL ALIEN. An individual who is present in the

United States in violation of the federal Immigration and

Nationality Act.

(4) IMMIGRATION DETAINER REQUEST. A federal government
Page 3

request to a local entity to maintain temporary custody of an

alien. The term includes a United States Department of

Homeland Security Form I-247 document or a similar successor

form.

(5) JAIL STAFF or JAIL STAFF MEMBER. Any employee of a

county or municipal jail, including, but not limited to, a

corrections officer, deputy assigned to a jail, a jailer, and

administrative support staff.

(6) LESC. The Law Enforcement Support Center of the
United States Department of Homeland Security.

§31-13-52

(a) State and local law enforcement agencies may enter

into memoranda of understanding and agreements with the United

States Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security,

and any other federal agency for the purpose of enforcing

federal immigration and customs laws and the detention,

removal, and investigation of illegal aliens and investigation

of the immigration status of any individual in this state. A

law enforcement officer acting within the scope of his or her

authority under any memorandum of understanding, agreement, or

other authorization from the federal government may arrest,

with probable cause, any individual suspected of being an

illegal alien.

(b) To the extent authorized by federal law, employees

of any state or local law enforcement agency, including law

enforcement officers, shall send, receive, and maintain

information relating to the immigration status of any

individual as reasonably needed for public safety purposes.
Page 4

(c) Except as provided by federal law, no state or

local agency or department shall be prohibited from utilizing

available federal resources, including databases, equipment,

grant funds, training, or participation in incentive programs,

for any public safety purpose relating to the enforcement of

state and federal immigration laws.

(d) When reasonably possible, applicable state agencies

shall consider incentive programs and grant funding for the

purpose of assisting and encouraging state and local agencies

and departments to enter into agreements with federal entities

and to use federal resources consistent with this section.

(e) If a state or local law enforcement officer has

verification that an individual is an illegal alien, the

officer may securely transport the illegal alien to a federal

facility in the state or any other temporary point of

detention and may reasonably detain the illegal alien when

authorized by federal law.

(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to

hinder or prevent a law enforcement officer or law enforcement

agency from arresting or detaining any criminal suspect on

other criminal charges.

(g) When authorized by federal law, a state or local

law enforcement officer may arrest any individual based on the

individual's status as an illegal alien or for a violation of

any federal immigration law.

(h) If, in the judgment of the Attorney General, a

state or local public official, agency of this state, or any

political subdivision thereof is in violation of this section,
Page 5

the Attorney General may report the violation to the Governor.
(i) A law enforcement officer or public official or

employee shall have immunity from any damages or liability,

subject to Section 36-1-12, when he or she acts in good faith

to enforce immigration laws pursuant to an agreement with

federal authorities to collect or share immigration status

information, or in the performance of any provision of this

section.

§31-13-53

(a)(1) When any individual is confined, for any period,

in a county or municipal jail, a reasonable effort shall be

made to determine the lawful status of the individual so

confined.

(2) In the event of a failure of communication between

jail staff and an inmate as a result of language barriers, an

interpreter may be brought in to assist with the booking and

identification process.

(3) If the inmate is unable to provide documentation

indicating his or her lawful status, a jail staff member shall

contact the LESC to determine the inmate's lawful status in

the United States.

(4) If the LESC requests a jail staff member to procure

an immigration detainer for the inmate and the inmate is still

in custody, the inmate shall not be released until after the

contact is made. If the inmate has already been released prior

to the notification from the LESC, the LESC shall be advised

of this fact.

(5) A jail staff member shall request that the LESC
Page 6

automatically notify ICE of any inmate who is determined to be

an illegal alien.

(6) An inmate who is suspected to be an illegal alien

shall not be detained solely because of the unavailability of

after-hours contact information to determine whether he or she

is an illegal alien.

(7) An inmate identified as an illegal alien shall not

be detained on the basis of being an illegal alien unless the

LESC or ICE specifically provides written instructions for

detaining the inmate as an illegal alien. The existence of an

arrest warrant shall be verified with ICE within 24 hours of

the placement of the immigration detainer.

(8)a. Inmates shall be held no longer than 48 hours

pursuant to an immigration detainer or an immigration warrant

unless the warrant is signed by a federal judge or federal

magistrate. An immigration warrant signed by any immigration

official other than a federal judge or federal magistrate

shall be treated as an immigration detainer. If an immigration

warrant signed by a federal judge or federal magistrate is not

received by the jail staff within 48 hours, or if ICE does not

take custody of the inmate within 48 hours, the inmate shall

be eligible for release from the custody.

b. This subdivision does not relieve the jail staff of

the requirement to notify the appropriate consulate of foreign

nationals.

(9) The jail staff shall maintain in each inmate's file
a record of all communications with ICE.
(b)(1) When a suspected foreign national is confined
Page 7

for any period in a county or municipal jail, a reasonable

effort shall be made to verify that the individual has been

admitted to the United States and, if lawfully admitted, that

the lawful status has not expired.

(2) When a suspected foreign national is admitted into

the jail, a jail staff member shall obtain at least one of the

following documents from the individual to determine whether

he or she has been lawfully admitted to the United States:

a. A Form I-94 Arrival/Departure Record issued by the
United States Department of Homeland Security.
b. A valid, unexpired passport indicating that a visa
was issued.

c. A permanent resident alien card Form 551.

d. A valid Nexus card.

e. A valid global entry identification card issued by

the United States Department of Homeland Security.
f. A valid passport indicating the bearer is a citizen

of a country participating in a visa waiver program

administered by the United States Department of State.

(3) If a suspected foreign national does not produce a

copy of one of the documents set forth in subdivision (2), or

if verification of any document is required, a jail staff

member shall contact the LESC or ICE for a determination of

the immigration status of the suspected foreign national.

(c) If a newly admitted inmate claims to be a consular

officer or to have diplomatic status and the inmate is unable

to produce the proper credentials or verification of

diplomatic status as required, a jail staff member shall
Page 8

contact the United States Department of State during its

normal working hours or the Command Center of the Office of

Security of the United States Department of State outside of

working hours to request verification of the inmate's status

as a consular officer or of other diplomatic status. Once an

inmate's status is verified as a consular officer or diplomat,

he or she shall be immediately released.

(d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to deny

an inmate bond or from being released from confinement when

the inmate is otherwise eligible for release; provided,

however, that upon verification that any inmate confined in a

jail is an illegal alien, the inmate may be detained,

arrested, and transported as authorized by state and federal

law.

§31-13-54

(a) A county or municipal jail that has custody of an

inmate who is subject to an immigration detainer request

issued by ICE shall:

(1) Comply with, honor, and fulfill any request made in
the immigration detainer request; and

(2) Inform the inmate identified in the immigration

detainer request that the inmate is being held pursuant to an

immigration detainer.

(b) Subsection (a) does not apply to an inmate who has

provided proof that he or she is a citizen of the United

States. Proof of citizenship may include, but is not limited

to:

(1) A driver license or nondriver identification card
Page 9

issued by the Alabama State Law Enforcement Agency; or

(2) A government issued identification issued by the
federal government or another state.

§31-13-55

(a) A state, county, and local jail, at least

quarterly, may prepare a report to be posted on the jail's

website or any other form of public communication, such as a

bulletin board, used by the jail and shall include:

(1) The total number of inmates booked into the jail;

(2) The total number of foreign national inmates

included in the total provided for in subdivision (1);
(3) The total number of inquiries made to the LESC or

any other federal agency inquiring about the immigration

status or prior arrests of foreign national inmates;

(4) The total number of responses from any inquiry
under subdivision (3);

(5) The total number of responses as provided for in

subdivision (4) that indicate a foreign national inmate is

present unlawfully within the United States;

(6) Any information about the inmate's lawful entry

into the United States, including the date of entry and visa

type if the length of the inmate's stay in the United States

is not authorized by his or her visa;

(7) The number of immigration detainers issued by the

United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Division of

the Department of Homeland Security for inmates in the jail;

and

(8) A statement by the sheriff, chief of police, or his
Page 10

or her designee verifying that all requirements of Section

31-13-52 have been complied with and that the jail is in

compliance with all applicable laws.

(b) A state, county, or local jail shall annually

provide the information reported in subsection (a) to the

Alabama State Law Enforcement Agency which shall annually post

the information on its website.

Section 3. Nothing in this act shall limit or abridge

any right created or recognized by the Constitution of Alabama

of 2022, or the Constitution of the United States.

Section 4. This act shall become effective on June 1,
2026.

Page 11
