SECOND REGULAR SESSION

HOUSE BILL NO. 2520
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE REED.
5620H.01I

JOSEPH ENGLER, Chief Clerk

AN ACT
To amend chapter 1, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to federal
Immigration and Customs Enforcement operations, with a penalty provision.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Chapter 1, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
known as section 1.3060, to read as follows:
1.3060. 1. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a federal law
enforcement agent performing Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
operations in this state shall not conceal his or her identity as an ICE agent or wear
a facial covering that conceals or obscures his or her facial identity in the performance
of his or her duties, except as expressly authorized in this section.
2. For purposes of this section, "facial covering" means any opaque mask,
garment, helmet, headgear, or other item that conceals or obscures the facial identity of
an individual including, but not limited to, a balaclava, tactical mask, gaiter, ski mask,
and any similar type of facial covering or face-shielding item. A facial covering does not
include any of the following:
(1) A translucent face shield or clear mask that does not conceal the wearer's
facial identity;
(2) An N95 medical mask or surgical mask to protect against transmission of
disease or infection, or any other mask, helmet, or device including, but not limited to,
air-purifying respirators, full or half masks, or self-contained breathing apparatus
necessary to protect against exposure to any toxin, gas, smoke, inclement weather, or
any other hazardous or harmful environmental condition;
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.

HB 2520

(3) A mask, helmet, or device including, but not limited to, a self-contained
breathing apparatus, necessary for underwater use;
(4) A motorcycle helmet when worn by an agent utilizing a motorcycle or other
vehicle that requires a helmet for safe operation while in the performance of their
duties; or
(5) Eyewear necessary to protect from the use of retinal weapons including, but
not limited to, lasers.
3. This section shall not apply to:
(1) Agents performing their duties as undercover operatives during an active
undercover operation or as needed to protect their identity following the conclusion of
an undercover operation; or
(2) Agents assigned to a Special Response Team (SRT) while actively performing
their SRT responsibilities.
4. A willful and knowing violation of this section is punishable as a class A
misdemeanor.
✔
