Senate File 2506 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2506
BY COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS
(SUCCESSOR TO SF 2301)
(SUCCESSOR TO SSB 3103)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to matters under the purview of the economic
development authority, the utilities commission, and
the department of education, including creation of the
headquarters expansion and development for growth and
employment program, and the business incentives for growth
program training fund; repeal of the new jobs tax credit
program; the major economic growth attraction program; load
forecasting and analysis of electric transmission system
expansion plans; creation of the electric transmission
system expansion planning and analysis and load forecasting
fund; the industrial new jobs training program; establishing
the new jobs training program interim study committee; the
research activities credit; and including effective date
provisions.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 5472SZ (3) 91
nls/ko

DIVISION I
HEADQUARTERS EXPANSION AND DEVELOPMENT FOR GROWTH EMPLOYMENT
PROGRAM
Section 1. NEW SECTION. 15.600 Short title.
This part shall be known and may be cited as the
“Headquarters Expansion and Development for Growth and Employment
Program”, or “EDGE Program”.
Sec. 2. NEW SECTION. 15.601 Definitions.
As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires:
1. “Agreement” means an agreement entered into by an
eligible business and the authority pursuant to section 15.604.
2. “Base employment level” means the number of full-time
equivalent positions at a business, as established by the
authority and the business based on the business’s payroll
records, on the date the business applies for the program.
3. “Benefits” means nonwage compensation provided to an
employee. “Benefits” include medical and dental insurance, a
pension, a retirement plan, a profit-sharing plan, child care,
life insurance, vision insurance, and disability insurance.
4. “Community” means a city or county in the state.
5. “Corporate headquarters” means a location in the
state that serves as the principal executive office or
houses the core administrative operations for a business,
and that includes executive leadership offices, strategic
decision-making functions, and administrative and support staff
employees.
6. “Corporate job” means a position based at a corporate
headquarters that involves strategic planning, executive
decision-making, or core administrative functions.
7. “Created jobs” or “create jobs” means new, permanent,
full-time equivalent positions added to an eligible business’s
payroll, at the location of the eligible business’s project, in
excess of the eligible business’s base employment level.
8. “Data center business” means the same as defined in
section 423.3, subsection 95.

nls/ko

1/24

9. “Eligible business” means a business that meets the
requirements of section 15.602.
10. “Full-time equivalent position” means a non-part-time
position for the number of hours or days per week considered
to be full-time work for the kind of service or work performed
for an employer. Typically, a full-time equivalent position
requires two thousand eighty hours of work in a calendar year,
including all paid holidays, vacations, sick time, and other
paid leave.
11. “Gross annual wages” means all regular wages and
salaries received by an employee for performing services as
an employee of an employer. “Gross annual wages” does not
include nonregular forms of compensation, such as bonuses,
unusual overtime pay, commissions, stock options, pensions,
retirement or death benefits, unemployment benefits, life or
other insurance, or other fringe benefits.
12. “New corporate job” means a corporate job that is a
created job.
13. “Program” means the headquarters expansion and
development for growth and employment program.
14. “Project” means the retention or location of a corporate
headquarters for an eligible business, proposed in an eligible
business’s application to the program, that will accomplish the
goals of the program.
15. “Qualifying wage threshold” means the mean wage level
represented by the wages within two standard deviations of
the mean wage within the laborshed area in which the eligible
business is located, as calculated by the authority by rule,
using the most current covered wage and employment data
available from the department of workforce development for the
laborshed area in which the eligible business is located.
16. “Retained corporate job” means a corporate job that is
also a retained job.
17. “Retained jobs” means a full-time equivalent position
that is in existence at the time an eligible business applies

nls/ko

2/24

for the program that remains continuously filled, and that is
at risk of elimination if the proposed project for which the
eligible business is applying to the program does not proceed.
18. “Tax incentives” means tax credits authorized under the
program by the authority for an eligible business.
Sec. 3. NEW SECTION. 15.602 Eligible business.
1. To be eligible to receive tax incentives under
the program, a business must meet all of the following
requirements:
a. The community in which the proposed project is located
must approve the project either by ordinance or resolution.
b. The business must have a global presence, significant
market share, or national recognition in the industry in which
the business operates.
c. The business must be able to provide documentation that a
minimum of fifty-one percent of the business’s gross revenue is
generated from business conducted outside the state.
d. The business must be able to provide documentation that
a state other than Iowa is meaningfully competing for the
location or retention of the business’s corporate headquarters.
e. (1) The business must be primarily engaged in advanced
manufacturing, bioscience, insurance and finance, technology
and innovation, or research and development. The business
shall not be a data center business, a retail business, or
a business where a cover charge or membership requirement
restricts certain individuals from entering the business.
(2) Factors the authority shall consider to determine if
a business is primarily engaged in advanced manufacturing,
bioscience, insurance and finance, technology and innovation,
or research and development shall include but are not limited
to all of the following:
(a) The business’s North American industry classification
system code.
(b) The business’s main sources of revenue.
(c) The business’s customer base.

nls/ko

3/24

f. (1) The business must not be solely relocating
operations from one area of the state to another area of
the state. A proposed project that does not create jobs or
involve a substantial amount of new capital investment shall
be presumed to be a relocation of operations. For purposes of
this subparagraph, the authority shall consider a letter from
the affected local community’s government officials supporting
the business’s move away from the affected local community
in making a determination whether the business is solely
relocating operations.
(2) This paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit
a business from expanding the business’s operations in a
community if the business has similar operations in this state
that are not closing or undergoing a substantial reduction in
operations.
g. The business must offer comprehensive benefits to
each full-time equivalent employee employed at its corporate
headquarters. The authority may adopt rules under chapter 17A
to determine the requirements for comprehensive benefits.
h. (1) The business must not have a record of violations
of law or of rules, including but not limited to antitrust,
environmental, trade, or worker safety, that over a period of
time show a consistent pattern or that establish the business’s
intentional, criminal, or reckless conduct in violation of such
laws or rules.
(2) In making determinations and findings under
subparagraph (1), and making a determination whether a business
is disqualified from the program, the authority shall be exempt
from chapter 17A.
2. In determining if a business is eligible to participate
in the program, the authority shall consider a variety of
factors including but not limited to all of the following:
a. The cost to the state of providing tax incentives
compared to the potential increase in state and local tax
collections from the project, the potential for population

nls/ko

4/24

growth resulting from the project, and the potential for wage
growth resulting from the project.
b. The impact of the business’s proposed project on
businesses that are in competition with the business.
The authority shall make a good-faith effort to identify
existing Iowa businesses in competition with the business
being considered for the program. The authority shall make
a good-faith effort to determine the probability that any
proposed tax incentives will displace employees of a competing
business. In determining the impact on a competing business,
employee displacement from the competing business shall not be
considered created jobs for the applying business’s project.
c. The business’s proposed project’s economic impact on
the state. The authority shall place greater emphasis on
businesses and proposed projects that meet the following
requirements:
(1) The business has a high proportion of in-state
suppliers.
(2) The proposed project will diversify the state economy.
(3) The business has few in-state competitors.
(4) The proposed project has the potential to create jobs on
an ongoing basis, or will result in increased skills and wages
for employees of the eligible business.
(5) The proposed project has the potential to increase the
state’s overall gross domestic product.
(6) The proposed project will result in a newly constructed
facility, or a facility with a significantly increased taxable
valuation.
(7) Any other factors the authority deems relevant in
determining the economic impact of a proposed project.
Sec. 4. NEW SECTION. 15.603 Applications —— authorization
of tax incentives.
1. Applications for the program shall be submitted to the
authority in the form and manner prescribed by the authority by
rule. Each application must be accompanied by an application

nls/ko

5/24

fee in an amount determined by the authority by rule.
2. In determining the eligibility of a business to
participate in the program the authority may engage outside
experts to complete a technical, financial, or other review
of an application submitted by a business if such review is
outside the expertise of the authority.
3. The authority and the board may negotiate with an
eligible business regarding the terms of, and the aggregate
value of, the tax incentives the eligible business may receive
under the program.
Sec. 5. NEW SECTION. 15.604 Agreement.
1. An eligible business that is approved by the authority to
participate in the program shall enter into an agreement with
the authority that specifies the criteria for the successful
completion of all requirements of the program. The agreement
must contain, at a minimum, provisions related to all of the
following:
a. The eligible business must certify to the authority
annually that the business is in compliance with the agreement.
b. If the eligible business fails to comply with any
requirements of the program or the agreement, the eligible
business may be required to repay any tax incentives the
authority issued to the eligible business. After a final
determination by the authority, the authority will notify
the department of revenue of any required repayment of a
tax incentive, which shall be considered a tax payment due
and payable to the department of revenue by any taxpayer
that claimed the tax incentive, and the failure to make the
repayment may be treated by the department of revenue in the
same manner as a failure to pay the tax shown due, or required
to be shown due, with the filing of a return or deposit form.
c. If the eligible business undergoes a layoff or
permanently closes any of its facilities within the state, the
eligible business may be subject to all of the following:
(1) A reduction or elimination of some or all of the tax

nls/ko

6/24

incentives the authority issued to the eligible business.
(2) Repayment of any tax incentives that the business
has claimed, and payment of any penalties assessed by the
department of revenue.
d. The end date of the agreement.
e. The number of new corporate jobs and retained corporate
jobs to be created or retained as part of the project, the
qualifying wage threshold applicable to the project, and the
date on which the authority will initially verify the eligible
business employs the required number of new corporate jobs and
retained corporate jobs.
f. The maximum aggregate value of the tax incentives
authorized by the board.
g. The eligible business shall only employ individuals
legally authorized to work in this state. If the eligible
business is found to knowingly employ individuals who are
not legally authorized to work in this state, in addition to
any penalties provided by law, the eligible business may be
required to repay all or a portion of any tax incentives the
authority issued to the eligible business.
h. A requirement that the eligible business must continue to
own and operate a corporate headquarters in the state until the
end date of the agreement as specified in paragraph “d”.
i. Any terms deemed necessary by the authority to effect the
eligible business’s ongoing compliance with section 15.602.
2. The board shall not amend the terms of the agreement
to allow an increase in the maximum aggregate value of tax
incentives authorized by the board under section 15.603.
3. The eligible business shall comply with all applicable
terms of the agreement until the agreement end date. An
eligible business shall maintain the business’s base employment
level until the agreement end date.
4. The eligible business shall not assign the agreement
to another entity without the advance written approval of the
board.

nls/ko

7/24

5. The authority may enforce the terms of the agreement as
necessary and appropriate.
Sec. 6. NEW SECTION. 15.605 Qualifying wage tax credit.
1. If the authority has entered into an agreement with an
eligible business pursuant to section 15.604, the authority
may authorize a qualifying wage tax credit with the eligible
business for a period not to exceed three years according
to the start and end date specified in the agreement. The
authority may issue a qualifying wage tax credit to the
eligible business for each year of the authorized period upon
verification under section 15.604, subsection 1, paragraph
“e”, that the eligible business employed the required number
of employees in new corporate jobs and retained corporate jobs
that pay at least two hundred percent of the qualifying wage
threshold. The tax credit for each year of the authorized
period shall equal no more than the sum of all of the
following:
a. Up to fifteen percent of the gross annual wages of new
corporate jobs that pay at least two hundred percent of the
qualifying wage threshold.
b. Up to one percent of the gross annual wages of retained
corporate jobs that pay at least two hundred percent of the
qualifying wage threshold, not to exceed one million dollars.
2. A tax credit shall be allowed against the taxes imposed
in chapter 422, subchapters II, III, and V, and against the
moneys and credits tax imposed in section 533.329.
3. In order for a taxpayer to claim a tax credit under
subsection 1, a tax credit certificate issued by the authority
shall be included with the taxpayer’s tax return. The tax
credit certificate shall contain the taxpayer’s name, address,
tax identification number, the amount of the credit, and other
information required by the authority.
4. An individual may claim a tax credit under subsection
1 on behalf of a partnership, limited liability company,
S corporation, estate, or trust electing to have income

nls/ko

8/24

taxed directly to the individual. The amount claimed by the
individual shall be based upon the pro rata share of the
individual’s earnings from the partnership, limited liability
company, S corporation, estate, or trust.
5. Any tax credit in excess of the taxpayer’s liability
for the tax year is refundable. In lieu of claiming a refund,
an eligible business may elect to have the overpayment shown
on the eligible business’s final, completed return credited
to the eligible business’s tax liability for the immediately
succeeding tax year. A tax credit shall not be carried back
to a tax year prior to the tax year in which the tax credit is
first claimed by the eligible business.
6. Tax credit certificates issued pursuant to this section
are not transferable.
Sec. 7. NEW SECTION. 15.606 Other incentives.
The authority, in its discretion, may prohibit an eligible
business that has been issued tax incentives under the program
from receiving any additional tax incentive, tax credit,
grant, loan, or other financial assistance under any program
administered by the authority.
Sec. 8. NEW SECTION. 422.12R Qualifying wage tax credit.
The taxes imposed under this subchapter, less the credits
allowed under section 422.12, shall be reduced by a qualifying
wage tax credit allowed under section 15.605.
Sec. 9. Section 422.33, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 4. The taxes imposed under this subchapter
shall be reduced by a qualifying wage tax credit allowed under
section 15.605.
Sec. 10. Section 422.60, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 2. The taxes imposed under this subchapter
shall be reduced by a qualifying wage tax credit allowed under
section 15.605.
Sec. 11. Section 533.329, subsection 2, Code 2026, is

nls/ko

9/24

amended by adding the following new paragraph:
NEW PARAGRAPH. m. The moneys and credits tax imposed under
this section shall be reduced by a qualifying wage tax credit
allowed under section 15.605.
Sec. 12. CODE EDITOR DIRECTIVE. The Code editor is directed
to designate sections 15.600 through 15.606, as enacted in this
division of this Act, as part 37 of subchapter II.
DIVISION II
MAJOR ECONOMIC GROWTH ATTRACTION PROGRAM
Sec. 13. Section 15.491, subsection 12, Code 2026, is
amended to read as follows:
12. “Foreign adversary” means a the following:
a. A foreign government or foreign non-government person as
determined in 15 C.F.R. §7.4, and that is listed in 15 C.F.R.
§7.4(a) at any time from March 4, 2024, through the termination
of the program July 17, 2024.
b. A foreign government or foreign non-government person as
determined in 15 C.F.R. §791.4, and that is listed in 15 C.F.R.
§791.4 at any time from July 18, 2024, through the termination
of the program.
Sec. 14. Section 15.501, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
15.501 Restrictions on board.
The board shall not authorize tax incentives available under
the program, or an exemption to restrictions on agricultural
land holdings pursuant to this part, for more than two eligible
businesses, or on or after January 1, 2027 2030, whichever
occurs first.
DIVISION III
BUSINESS INCENTIVES FOR GROWTH PROGRAM TRAINING FUND
Sec. 15. NEW SECTION. 15.512 Training fund.
1. A business incentives for growth program training fund
is created in the state treasury under the control of the
authority. An amount up to one and one-half percent of the
gross wages an eligible business pays to employees specified in

nls/ko

10/24

an agreement entered into pursuant to section 15.506 shall be
credited to the fund from the withholding payments made by an
eligible business pursuant to section 422.16. Such jobs shall
be identified by the authority as having a sufficient economic
impact to warrant assistance with training.
2. On a quarterly basis, an eligible business shall disclose
the amount of gross wages that qualify under subsection 1 to
the authority and to the department of revenue. Based upon
the gross wage amount provided to the authority, the authority
shall calculate the amount of gross wages to be deposited into
the fund for the quarter, and the department of revenue shall
deposit that amount into the fund.
3. Moneys in the fund shall be used to reimburse training
expenses incurred by an eligible business that are associated
with the eligible business’s project.
4. An eligible business’s training expenses that may be
eligible for reimbursement must meet all of the following
criteria:
a. The expenses are paid to a third party.
b. The expenses are for training that is specific to the
project of the eligible business and necessary for the success
of the project.
c. The expenses were incurred over the period of time
identified in the agreement under section 15.506, but not to
exceed four years.
d. The expenses are documented to the satisfaction of the
authority.
5. An eligible business that has been approved by the
authority to receive a reimbursement from the fund shall not be
eligible to receive any other state incentive to be used for
the same purpose.
DIVISION IV
REPEAL OF THE NEW JOBS TAX CREDIT
Sec. 16. Section 2.48, subsection 3, paragraph e,
subparagraph (7), Code 2026, is amended by striking the

nls/ko

11/24

subparagraph.
Sec. 17. REPEAL. Section 422.11A, Code 2026, is repealed.
Sec. 18. PRESERVATION OF EXISTING RIGHTS. This division of
this Act shall not limit, modify, or otherwise adversely affect
any amount of tax incentive issued, awarded, or allowed before
the effective date of this division of this Act, nor shall
it limit, modify, or otherwise adversely affect a taxpayer’s
right to claim or redeem a tax incentive issued, awarded, or
allowed before the effective date of this division of this Act,
including but not limited to any tax incentive carryforward
amount.
Sec. 19. EFFECTIVE DATE. This division of this Act, being
deemed of immediate importance, takes effect upon enactment.
DIVISION V
LOAD FORECASTING
Sec. 20. NEW SECTION. 15.120A Load forecasting report and
analysis of electric transmission system expansion plans.
To support economic development in the state, the authority
shall commission Iowa state university of science and
technology to produce a report forecasting the probable future
growth of the use of electricity within Iowa and within the
midwest region. The report shall include a load forecast and
an analysis of electric transmission system expansion plans.
The authority must commission such report from the university
at least every two years. In developing the report, the
university shall solicit the input of residential, commercial,
and industrial consumers and the electric industry. The
published report shall only rely on information provided by
utilities as required by section 476.2 in aggregate form and
exclude identifying information about an individual utility’s
electric system. The load forecast and state electric
transmission system expansion planning analysis must be
published by December 31, 2028, and biennially published on or
before December 31 thereafter. The authority may commission
other reports as necessary to evaluate energy needs including

nls/ko

12/24

but not limited to natural gas. A report commissioned pursuant
to this section must be publicly available on the authority’s
internet site.
Sec. 21. Section 476.1A, subsection 2, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
2. However, sections section 476.2, subsection 7, section
476.20, subsections 1 through 4, sections 476.21, 476.51,
476.56, 476.58, 476.62, and 476.66, and chapters 476A and 478,
to the extent applicable, apply to such electric utilities.
Sec. 22. Section 476.1B, subsection 2, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
2. Section 476.20, subsections 1 through 4, Section 476.2,
subsection 7, section 476.20, subsections 1 through 4, sections
476.51, 476.56, 476.58, 476.62, and 476.66, and chapters 476A
and 478, to the extent applicable, apply to such electric and
gas utilities.
Sec. 23. Section 476.2, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 7. The commission shall have the authority
to compel all public utilities to share with Iowa state
university of science and technology the utility’s information
necessary to develop state load forecasts and state electric
transmission system expansion planning analysis pursuant to
section 15.120A. A public utility may use a third party
to prepare such information to be shared with Iowa state
university of science and technology. A public utility may
enter into a nondisclosure agreement with Iowa state university
of science and technology requiring the shared information be
kept confidential if the public utility reasonably believes
the information is a confidential record pursuant to section
22.7. The state load forecast and state electric transmission
system expansion planning aggregate analysis published pursuant
to section 15.120A may be used as evidentiary support in any
proceedings before the commission, provided the confidentiality
of any information provided by a public utility is maintained.

nls/ko

13/24

Sec. 24. NEW SECTION. 476.10C Load forecasts and analyses
of state electric transmission system expansion plans —— fund.
1. An electric transmission system expansion plans analysis
and load forecasting fund is created in the state treasury
under the control of the economic development authority. The
commission shall direct all electric utilities to remit to the
treasurer of state for deposit in the electric transmission
system expansion plans analysis and load forecasting fund not
more than two one-hundredths of one percent of the total gross
operating revenues during the last calendar year derived from
the utilities’ intrastate public utility operations. Moneys in
the fund are appropriated to the economic development authority
to be used for the purposes of commissioning a report pursuant
to section 15.120A. Notwithstanding section 8.33, moneys in
the fund that remain unencumbered or unobligated at the close
of a fiscal year shall not revert but shall remain available
for expenditure for the purposes designated. Notwithstanding
section 12C.7, subsection 2, interest or earnings on moneys in
the fund shall be credited to the fund.
2. The commission shall, by rule, establish a maximum
amount of remittances in aggregate and provide a schedule
for remittances. The remittances collected pursuant to this
section shall be in addition to the assessments permitted
pursuant to section 476.10. The commission shall allow
inclusion of these remittances in the budgets approved by the
commission pursuant to section 476.6, subsection 15, paragraph
“c”, but such remittances shall not be included when computing
the projected cumulative average annual cost for an electric
utility’s energy efficiency plan and demand response plan under
section 476.6, subsection 15, paragraph “c”.
DIVISION VI
IOWA INDUSTRIAL NEW JOBS TRAINING PROGRAM
Sec. 25. Section 260E.3, subsection 1, unnumbered paragraph
1, Code 2026, is amended to read as follows:
A community college may enter into an agreement to establish

nls/ko

14/24

a project. If an agreement is entered into, the community
college and the employer shall notify the department of
workforce development and the department of revenue as soon
as possible. An agreement shall provide for program costs,
including deferred costs, which may be paid from one or a
combination of the following sources:
Sec. 26. Section 260E.3, subsection 2, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
2. a. Payment For an agreement entered into on or
before June 30, 2026, payment of program costs shall not be
deferred for a period longer than ten years from the date of
commencement of the project, and the agreed upon period shall
not be extended.
b. For an agreement entered into on or after July 1, 2026,
payment of program costs shall not be deferred for a period
longer than five years from the date of commencement of the
project.
Sec. 27. Section 260E.3, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 6. A project shall not be funded under this
chapter unless the department of workforce development approves
the agreement. No more than thirty calendar days after
receipt of notice of an agreement pursuant to subsection 1, the
department of workforce development shall either approve or
deny the agreement and notify the community college, business,
and department of revenue of such decision.
Sec. 28. Section 260E.7, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 4. A community college that receives
a new jobs credit from withholding under section 260E.5
shall annually report a detailed accounting of the community
college’s bond interest to the department of workforce
development, the department of education, and the department
of revenue.
Sec. 29. NEW SECTION. 260E.8 Eligible program costs.

nls/ko

15/24

To be eligible to receive a new jobs credit from withholding,
a community college must document to the satisfaction of the
department that the community college’s program costs meet all
of the following criteria:
1. The program costs are incurred over the period of time
specified in the agreement under section 260E.3.
2. The program costs are not incurred to reimburse travel,
conferences, or legal fees.
3. Administrative expenses account for no more than fifteen
percent of the program costs.
DIVISION VII
IOWA INDUSTRIAL NEW JOBS TRAINING PROGRAM INTERIM STUDY
COMMITTEE
Sec. 30. IOWA INDUSTRIAL NEW JOBS TRAINING PROGRAM INTERIM
STUDY COMMITTEE.
1. The legislative council is requested to establish an
interim study committee to meet during the 2026 legislative
interim to review the new jobs training program and make
recommendations regarding the program.
2. The membership of the committee shall consist of, at a
minimum:
a. Three members of the senate, two republicans and one
democrat, appointed by the majority leader of the senate.
b. Three members of the house of representatives, two
republicans and one democrat, appointed by the speaker of the
house of representatives.
c. A representative of a community college located within
the state.
d. A representative of the Iowa economic development
authority.
e. A representative of the department of workforce
development.
f. Three business owners who have participated in the new
jobs training program.
g. One business owner who has not participated in the new

nls/ko

16/24

jobs training program.
3. The interim study committee shall do all of the
following:
a. Review the new jobs training program, including but not
limited to all of the following:
(1) The original objectives of the program, and an
evaluation of whether the objectives are aligned with the
current workforce needs in the state.
(2) The number of jobs created as a result of the program.
(3) Wage increases for participants in the program prior to
and after participating in the program.
(4) Employee retention rates for employers participating
in the program.
(5) The financial impact of the program, including an
evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of the program, a
comparison of state funding versus economic output and job
creation, and an assessment of the return on investment for the
state and businesses that participate in the program.
(6) The quality and relevance of the training programs that
are offered, including whether each training program meets
industry standards and needs, and whether participants in the
training gain necessary skills to succeed in each participant’s
job.
(7) The effectiveness of the program in targeting
industries with the highest demand for skilled labor.
(8) Sectors that may require more focus and support from the
program.
b. Gather qualitative data through surveys or interviews
with program participants, and identify the strengths
and weaknesses of the new jobs training program from the
perspective of the participants.
c. Review partnerships with community colleges and training
providers to evaluate whether the partnerships are effective in
delivering relevant training, and identify ways to strengthen
or expand partnerships.

nls/ko

17/24

d. Assess the effectiveness of the program’s compliance
monitoring and oversight of the use of program funds and
participants’ adherence to the program requirements.
4. Meetings of the interim study committee may be held
electronically or in person, provided that the final meeting of
the interim study committee is held in person.
5. The interim study committee shall submit a report
detailing the committee’s findings and recommendations to the
general assembly no later than December 15, 2026.
DIVISION VIII
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES CREDIT
Sec. 31. Section 422.10, subsection 1, paragraph a,
subparagraph (2), Code 2026, is amended to read as follows:
(2) (a) The business claims and is allowed a research
credit for such qualified research expenses under section 41
of the Internal Revenue Code for the same taxable year as it is
claiming the credit provided in this section.
(b) If the credit is based on conducting agriscience
research as defined in subparagraph (1), subparagraph division
(b), subparagraph subdivision (i), subparagraph part (B),
section 41(d)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code does not apply
and qualified research expenses under section 41(b) of the
Internal Revenue Code includes all qualified research expenses
incurred for qualified research regardless of whether conducted
after the beginning of commercial production of the business
component within the meaning of section 41(d)(4)(A) of the
Internal Revenue Code or such research otherwise meets another
excluded category in section 41(d)(4) of the Internal Revenue
Code.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill relates to economic development authority programs
and tax credits; load forecasting and the state electric
transmission system expansion plans; and the industrial new

nls/ko

18/24

jobs training program.
DIVISION I —— HEADQUARTERS EXPANSION AND DEVELOPMENT FOR
GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM. The bill creates a headquarters
expansion and development for growth and employment program
(EDGE program) to provide tax incentives to eligible
businesses. The qualifications for an eligible business, and
the factors the economic development authority (authority)
shall consider in determining if a business is eligible to
participate in the EDGE program are provided in the bill.
Applications for the EDGE program shall be submitted to the
authority.
The terms of, and aggregate value of, a tax incentive may
be negotiated between an eligible business, the authority, and
the board comprised of members of the authority appointed by
the governor (board). An eligible business that is approved to
participate in the EDGE program shall enter into an agreement
with the authority specifying the criteria for successful
completion of the program requirements. The requirements
for the program agreement are detailed in the bill, and the
authority may enforce such requirements.
If the authority enters into an agreement with an eligible
business, the authority may authorize a qualifying wage tax
credit for the eligible business for a period not to exceed
three years as specified in the agreement. The authority may
issue a qualifying wage tax credit to the eligible business for
each year of the authorized period upon verification that the
eligible business employed the required number of employees
in new corporate jobs and retained corporate jobs that pay
at least 200 percent of the qualifying wage threshold. The
tax credit for each year of the authorized period shall equal
no more than the amount specified in the bill. A taxpayer
shall include a tax credit certificate issued by the authority
with the taxpayer’s tax return to claim the tax credit. An
individual may claim a tax credit on behalf of a partnership,
limited liability company, S corporation, estate, or trust

nls/ko

19/24

electing to have income taxed directly to the individual in
an amount based upon the pro rata share of the individual’s
earnings. Any tax credit in excess of the taxpayer’s liability
for the tax year is refundable or may be credited to the
immediately succeeding tax year. Tax credit certificates are
not transferable.
The authority may prohibit an eligible business that
receives a tax incentive from the program from receiving any
other tax incentives or financial assistance under any program
administered by the authority.
Under the bill, individual and corporate income taxes,
financial institution franchise taxes, and money and credits
taxes on credit unions shall be reduced by a qualifying wage
tax credit.
DIVISION II —— MAJOR ECONOMIC GROWTH ATTRACTION PROGRAM.
The bill amends the definition of a “foreign adversary” under
the major economic growth attraction program (MEGA program).
Under current law, a foreign adversary is a foreign government
or foreign nongovernment person as determined in 15 C.F.R.
§7.4, and as listed in 15 C.F.R. §7.4(a) at any time from March
4, 2024, through the termination of the program. Under the
bill, a foreign adversary is a foreign government or foreign
nongovernment person as determined in 15 C.F.R. §7.4, and as
listed in 15 C.F.R. §7.4(a) at any time from March 4, 2024,
through July 17, 2024, or, as determined in 15 C.F.R. §791.4,
and as listed in 15 C.F.R. §791.4 at any time from July 18,
2024, through the termination of the program.
Under current law, the board shall not authorize tax
incentives available under the MEGA program, or an exemption to
restrictions on agricultural land holdings, for more than two
eligible businesses, or on or after January 1, 2027, whichever
occurs first. The bill extends this provision to January 1,
2030.
DIVISION III —— BUSINESS INCENTIVES FOR GROWTH PROGRAM
TRAINING FUND. The bill creates a business incentives for

nls/ko

20/24

growth program training fund (fund) in the state treasury under
the control of the authority.
Under the bill, an amount up to 1.5 percent of the gross
wages an eligible business pays to employees specified in an
agreement with the authority shall be credited to the fund
from the withholding payments made by the eligible business.
Such jobs shall be identified by the authority as having a
sufficient economic impact to warrant assistance with training.
On a quarterly basis, an eligible business shall disclose the
amount of gross wages that qualify to the authority and to the
department of revenue (DOR). The authority shall calculate the
amount of gross wages to be deposited into the fund, and the
DOR shall deposit that amount into the fund.
Moneys in the fund shall be used to reimburse training
expenses incurred by an eligible business that are associated
with the eligible business’s project, and that meet the
requirements detailed in the bill. An eligible business that
has been approved to receive a reimbursement from the fund
shall not receive any other state incentives for the same
purpose.
DIVISION IV —— REPEAL OF THE NEW JOBS TAX CREDIT. The
bill repeals the new jobs tax credit under Code section
422.11A. The bill makes a conforming change to Code section
2.48(3)(e)(7).
This division of the bill, being deemed of immediate
importance, takes effect upon enactment.
DIVISION V —— LOAD FORECASTING. The bill relates to load
forecasting and analysis of electric transmission system
expansion plans. The bill directs the authority to commission
Iowa state university of science and technology (ISU) to
produce a report forecasting the probable future growth of
electricity use within the state and within the midwest region.
The report must include a load forecast and an analysis of
electric transmission system expansion plans, and must be
commissioned from ISU at least once every two years. In

nls/ko

21/24

developing the report, ISU must solicit input from residential,
commercial, and industrial consumers and the electric industry.
The published report shall only rely on information provided by
utilities in aggregate form and must exclude any identifying
information about an individual utility’s electric system.
The load forecast and electric transmission system expansion
planning analysis must be published by December 31, 2028, and
biennially published on or before December 31 thereafter. The
authority may commission other reports as necessary to evaluate
energy needs. A report shall be made publicly available on the
authority’s internet site.
The bill grants the Iowa utilities commission (commission)
authority to compel public utilities to share with ISU the
utility’s information necessary to develop the load forecasts
and electric transmission system expansion planning analysis
required under the bill. A public utility may use a third
party to prepare such information to be shared with ISU and may
enter into a nondisclosure agreement with ISU requiring shared
information be kept confidential. The bill also provides that
the load forecast and electric transmission system expansion
planning aggregate analysis may be used as evidentiary support
in any proceedings before the commission as detailed in
the bill. This authority to compel includes all electric
utilities, including electric public utilities with few
customers, electric cooperative corporations and associations,
and municipally owned utilities.
The bill requires the commission to direct all electric
utilities to remit to the treasurer of state for deposit in
the electric transmission system expansion planning analysis
and load forecasting fund, as created in the bill, not more
than .02 percent of the utilities’ total gross intrastate
operating revenues from the prior year. Moneys in the fund are
appropriated to the authority for the purpose of commissioning
the load forecasting report and analysis. The bill directs
the commission to establish by rule an aggregate maximum

nls/ko

22/24

amount of remittances and a schedule for remittances. The
remittances are in addition to assessments otherwise permitted
and may be included in budgets approved for energy efficiency
implementation as detailed in the bill.
DIVISION VI —— IOWA INDUSTRIAL NEW JOBS TRAINING PROGRAM.
Under current law, payment of program costs shall not be
deferred for a period of more than 10 years from the date of
commencement of the project. Under the bill, for an agreement
entered into on or before June 30, 2026, payment shall not be
deferred for more than 10 years and may not be extended, and
for an agreement on or after July 1, 2026, payment may not be
deferred for more than 5 years.
A community college and an employer shall notify the
department of workforce development upon entering into the
agreement. Under the bill, a project shall not be funded
unless the department of workforce development approves the
agreement within 30 days of receipt of notice of an agreement.
The bill requires a community college that receives a new
jobs credit from withholding to annually report a detailed
accounting of the community college’s bond interest. Under the
bill, to be eligible for the new jobs credit from withholding,
a community college most document that program costs are
incurred over the period of time specified in the agreement
with an employer, that program costs are not incurred to
reimburse travel, conferences, or legal fees, and that
administrative expenses do not account for more than 15 percent
of the program costs.
DIVISION VII —— IOWA INDUSTRIAL NEW JOBS TRAINING PROGRAM
INTERIM COMMITTEE. The bill requests the legislative council
to establish an interim study committee to review the new
jobs training program and make recommendations regarding the
program. Membership of the interim study committee, and the
responsibilities of the committee, are detailed in the bill.
The interim study committee shall submit a report detailing
the findings and recommendations to the general assembly by

nls/ko

23/24

December 15, 2026.
DIVISION VIII —— RESEARCH ACTIVITIES CREDIT. The bill
clarifies, for a research credit based on conducting
agriscience research, which sections of the Internal Revenue
Code apply and what claims a business is allowed.

nls/ko

24/24
