SECOND REGULAR SESSION

HOUSE BILL NO. 3140
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE SMITH (68).
6922H.01I

JOSEPH ENGLER, Chief Clerk

AN ACT
To repeal section 173.2505, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof one new section relating to
scholarships for dual enrollment courses.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Section 173.2505, RSMo, is repealed and one new section enacted in lieu
thereof, to be known as section 173.2505, to read as follows:
173.2505. 1. This section shall be known and may be cited as the "Dual Credit and
Dual Enrollment Scholarship Act".
2. To be eligible to receive the dual credit or dual enrollment scholarship, or both, a
student shall:
(1) Be a United States citizen or permanent resident;
(2) Be a Missouri resident as defined by the coordinating board for higher education
pursuant to section 173.005;
(3) Be enrolled in a dual credit or dual enrollment course offered by an approved dual
credit provider or an approved dual enrollment provider, as defined in section 173.2500;
(4) Have a cumulative high school grade point average of at least two and a half on a
four point scale or equivalent; and
(5) Meet one or more of the following indicators of economic need:
(a) Be individually eligible to be enrolled in a federal free or reduced-price lunch
program, based on income levels established by the United States Department of Agriculture;
(b) Reside in a foster home, be a ward of the state, or be homeless as defined by
Subtitle VII-B of the federal McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act; or

EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.

HB 3140

(c) Receive as part of such student's immediate family low-income public assistance,
such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) or the Special Supplemental
Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), or live in federally subsidized
public housing.
3. The dual credit and dual enrollment scholarship is hereby created to provide
financial assistance to high school students enrolling in dual credit or dual enrollment courses
offered by an approved dual credit or dual enrollment provider. The coordinating board may
promulgate rules for the administration of the program including establishing the application,
eligibility, and payment procedures. Any rule or portion of a rule, as that term is defined in
section 536.010, that is created under the authority delegated in this section shall become
effective only if it complies with and is subject to all of the provisions of chapter 536 and, if
applicable, section 536.028. This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and if any of the
powers vested with the general assembly pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the
effective date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently held unconstitutional, then
the grant of rulemaking authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August 28, 2016,
shall be invalid and void.
4. (1) Subject to appropriation, each eligible student shall be offered a dual credit or
dual enrollment scholarship equal to:
(a) The tuition and fees paid by the student to enroll in a dual credit or dual
enrollment course offered by an approved dual credit or dual enrollment provider; and
(b) The mileage expenses incurred in attending a dual enrollment course.
(2) (a) The amount of mileage expenses eligible for reimbursement to such
student or the student's parent shall be, rounded to the nearest dollar, the product
obtained by multiplying:
a. The number of days the student attended the dual enrollment course at a
location other than the high school at which such student is enrolled if the student's high
school does not provide transportation;
b. The number of miles in a single round trip between the student's residence
and the location at which the dual enrollment course is offered; and
c. The mileage reimbursement rate of thirty-seven cents per mile.
(b) The student or the student's parent shall keep a record of each instance of
transporting the student to and from the student's residence and the location at which
the dual enrollment course is offered. Such record may be verified by the student's
attendance records or in a similar manner as established by board policy.
(c) All reimbursements made under this subdivision to a student or the student's
parent shall be made quarterly.

HB 3140

5. There is hereby created in the state treasury the "Dual Credit and Dual Enrollment
Scholarship Fund", which shall consist of moneys appropriated to the fund by the general
assembly and private donations made to the fund. The state treasurer shall be the custodian of
the fund and shall invest moneys in the fund in the same manner as other funds are invested.
Any interest and moneys earned on such investments shall be credited to the fund.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 33.080 to the contrary, any moneys remaining in
the fund at the end of the biennium shall not revert to the credit of the general revenue fund.
✔
