Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly
of North Dakota

SENATE BILL NO. 2401

Introduced by
Legislative Management
(Joint Policy Committee)

A BILL for an Act to amend and reenact section 43-17-27.1 of the North Dakota Century Code,

relating to physician continuing education requirements; to provide a statement of legislative

intent; and to provide an effective date.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY OF NORTH DAKOTA:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT. Section 43-17-27.1 of the North Dakota Century Code is
amended and reenacted as follows:

43-17-27.1. Physician continuing education requirements.

1.

The board shall promote a high degree of competence in the practice of medicine by

establishing rules requiring every physician licensed in the state to fulfill continuing

education requirements. Compliance with these rules must be documented at such

times and in such manner as is required by the board. Physicians failing to comply

with continuing education requirements in the time and manner specified by rule of the

board will be assessed a fee up to three times the licensure fee, in addition to such

other penalties as are authorized by law.

2.

The board shall require physicians to complete a minimum of one hour of continuing
education on nutrition and metabolic health each renewal cycle.

3.

Before a license may be renewed, the physician shall submit evidence to the board

establishing that all continuing education requirements prescribed by the rules

adopted by the board have been met.

3.4.

The board may accept current certification, maintenance of certification, or

recertification by a member of the American board of medical specialties, the American

osteopathic association, or the royal college of physician and surgeons of Canada in

lieu of compliance with continuing education requirements.

Page No. 1

Sixty-ninth
Legislative Assembly

4.5.

The board may exempt a physician from the requirements of this section in
accordance with rules adopted by the board.

5.6.

Notwithstanding subsection 1, if an individual fails to file a timely response, the board

may determine whether the individual's failure to file a timely response to an audit

constitutes an admission of noncompliance with this section and whether the

individual's license should be subject to action by the board. If the board determines

that the individual's failure to file a timely response is an admission of noncompliance

and that the individual's license should be subject to action by the board, the board

shall hold a hearing in accordance with chapter 28-32 to take any appropriate action.

6.7.

The board shall provide access on the board's website to an instructional course on

chapters 12.1-19.1, 14-02.1, and 14-02.6 as the chapters relate to the practice of

medicine. The instructional course must be developed by contract through the office of

management and budget, in consultation with and with final approval from the attorney

general. This section does not create a right of action against the board by a physician

acting upon reliance of the instructional course. The instructional course must be

updated periodically to accurately reflect state law.

SECTION 2. LEGISLATIVE INTENT - HEALTH OCCUPATION BOARDS TO CONSIDER

REQUIRING COMPLETION OF NUTRITION-RELATED CONTINUING EDUCATION. It is the

intent of the sixty-ninth legislative assembly that health-related occupation boards under title 43

consider requiring licensees to complete nutrition-related continuing education for the

prevention and reduction of chronic disease.

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Act becomes effective upon its filing with the
secretary of state.

Page No. 2
