SECOND REGULAR SESSION

HOUSE BILL NO. 2065
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE THOMAS.
4882H.01I

JOSEPH ENGLER, Chief Clerk

AN ACT
To repeal sections 191.1720, 208.152, 217.230, and 221.120, RSMo, and to enact in lieu
thereof three new sections relating to gender transition procedures.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Sections 191.1720, 208.152, 217.230, and 221.120, RSMo, are repealed
and three new sections enacted in lieu thereof, to be known as sections 208.152, 217.230, and
221.120, to read as follows:
208.152. 1. MO HealthNet payments shall be made on behalf of those eligible needy
persons as described in section 208.151 who are unable to provide for it in whole or in part,
with any payments to be made on the basis of the reasonable cost of the care or reasonable
charge for the services as defined and determined by the MO HealthNet division, unless
otherwise hereinafter provided, for the following:
(1) Inpatient hospital services, except to persons in an institution for mental diseases
who are under the age of sixty-five years and over the age of twenty-one years; provided that
the MO HealthNet division shall provide through rule and regulation an exception process for
coverage of inpatient costs in those cases requiring treatment beyond the seventy-fifth
percentile professional activities study (PAS) or the MO HealthNet children's diagnosis
length-of-stay schedule; and provided further that the MO HealthNet division shall take into
account through its payment system for hospital services the situation of hospitals which
serve a disproportionate number of low-income patients;
(2) All outpatient hospital services, payments therefor to be in amounts which
represent no more than eighty percent of the lesser of reasonable costs or customary charges
for such services, determined in accordance with the principles set forth in Title XVIII A and
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.

B, Public Law 89-97, 1965 amendments to the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. Section
301, et seq.), but the MO HealthNet division may evaluate outpatient hospital services
rendered under this section and deny payment for services which are determined by the MO
HealthNet division not to be medically necessary, in accordance with federal law and
regulations;
(3) Laboratory and X-ray services;
(4) Nursing home services for participants, except to persons with more than five
hundred thousand dollars equity in their home or except for persons in an institution for
mental diseases who are under the age of sixty-five years, when residing in a hospital licensed
by the department of health and senior services or a nursing home licensed by the department
of health and senior services or appropriate licensing authority of other states or governmentowned and -operated institutions which are determined to conform to standards equivalent to
licensing requirements in Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. Section
1396, et seq.), as amended, for nursing facilities. The MO HealthNet division may recognize
through its payment methodology for nursing facilities those nursing facilities which serve a
high volume of MO HealthNet patients. The MO HealthNet division when determining the
amount of the benefit payments to be made on behalf of persons under the age of twenty-one
in a nursing facility may consider nursing facilities furnishing care to persons under the age of
twenty-one as a classification separate from other nursing facilities;
(5) Nursing home costs for participants receiving benefit payments under subdivision
(4) of this subsection for those days, which shall not exceed twelve per any period of six
consecutive months, during which the participant is on a temporary leave of absence from the
hospital or nursing home, provided that no such participant shall be allowed a temporary
leave of absence unless it is specifically provided for in his or her plan of care. As used in
this subdivision, the term "temporary leave of absence" shall include all periods of time
during which a participant is away from the hospital or nursing home overnight because he or
she is visiting a friend or relative;
(6) Physicians' services, whether furnished in the office, home, hospital, nursing
home, or elsewhere, provided, that no funds shall be expended to any abortion facility, as
defined in section 188.015, or to any affiliate, as defined in section 188.015, of such abortion
facility;
(7) Subject to appropriation, up to twenty visits per year for services limited to
examinations, diagnoses, adjustments, and manipulations and treatments of malpositioned
articulations and structures of the body provided by licensed chiropractic physicians
practicing within their scope of practice. Nothing in this subdivision shall be interpreted to
otherwise expand MO HealthNet services;

(8) Drugs and medicines when prescribed by a licensed physician, dentist, podiatrist,
or an advanced practice registered nurse; except that no payment for drugs and medicines
prescribed on and after January 1, 2006, by a licensed physician, dentist, podiatrist, or an
advanced practice registered nurse may be made on behalf of any person who qualifies for
prescription drug coverage under the provisions of P.L. 108-173;
(9) Emergency ambulance services and, effective January 1, 1990, medically
necessary transportation to scheduled, physician-prescribed nonelective treatments;
(10) Early and periodic screening and diagnosis of individuals who are under the age
of twenty-one to ascertain their physical or mental defects, and health care, treatment, and
other measures to correct or ameliorate defects and chronic conditions discovered thereby.
Such services shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 6403 of P.L.
101-239 and federal regulations promulgated thereunder;
(11) Home health care services;
(12) Family planning as defined by federal rules and regulations; provided, that no
funds shall be expended to any abortion facility, as defined in section 188.015, or to any
affiliate, as defined in section 188.015, of such abortion facility; and further provided,
however, that such family planning services shall not include abortions or any abortifacient
drug or device that is used for the purpose of inducing an abortion unless such abortions are
certified in writing by a physician to the MO HealthNet agency that, in the physician's
professional judgment, the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to
term;
(13) Inpatient psychiatric hospital services for individuals under age twenty-one as
defined in Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. Section 1396d, et seq.);
(14) Outpatient surgical procedures, including presurgical diagnostic services
performed in ambulatory surgical facilities which are licensed by the department of health
and senior services of the state of Missouri; except, that such outpatient surgical services shall
not include persons who are eligible for coverage under Part B of Title XVIII, Public Law 8997, 1965 amendments to the federal Social Security Act, as amended, if exclusion of such
persons is permitted under Title XIX, Public Law 89-97, 1965 amendments to the federal
Social Security Act, as amended;
(15) Personal care services which are medically oriented tasks having to do with a
person's physical requirements, as opposed to housekeeping requirements, which enable a
person to be treated by his or her physician on an outpatient rather than on an inpatient or
residential basis in a hospital, intermediate care facility, or skilled nursing facility. Personal
care services shall be rendered by an individual not a member of the participant's family who
is qualified to provide such services where the services are prescribed by a physician in
accordance with a plan of treatment and are supervised by a licensed nurse. Persons eligible

to receive personal care services shall be those persons who would otherwise require
placement in a hospital, intermediate care facility, or skilled nursing facility. Benefits payable
for personal care services shall not exceed for any one participant one hundred percent of the
average statewide charge for care and treatment in an intermediate care facility for a
comparable period of time. Such services, when delivered in a residential care facility or
assisted living facility licensed under chapter 198, shall be authorized on a tier level based on
the services the resident requires and the frequency of the services. A resident of such facility
who qualifies for assistance under section 208.030 shall, at a minimum, if prescribed by a
physician, qualify for the tier level with the fewest services. The rate paid to providers for
each tier of service shall be set subject to appropriations. Subject to appropriations, each
resident of such facility who qualifies for assistance under section 208.030 and meets the
level of care required in this section shall, at a minimum, if prescribed by a physician, be
authorized up to one hour of personal care services per day. Authorized units of personal care
services shall not be reduced or tier level lowered unless an order approving such reduction or
lowering is obtained from the resident's personal physician. Such authorized units of personal
care services or tier level shall be transferred with such resident if he or she transfers to
another such facility. Such provision shall terminate upon receipt of relevant waivers from
the federal Department of Health and Human Services. If the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services determines that such provision does not comply with the state plan, this
provision shall be null and void. The MO HealthNet division shall notify the revisor of
statutes as to whether the relevant waivers are approved or a determination of noncompliance
is made;
(16) Mental health services. The state plan for providing medical assistance under
Title XIX of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 1396, et seq., as amended, shall
include the following mental health services when such services are provided by community
mental health facilities operated by the department of mental health or designated by the
department of mental health as a community mental health facility or as an alcohol and drug
abuse facility or as a child-serving agency within the comprehensive children's mental health
service system established in section 630.097. The department of mental health shall
establish by administrative rule the definition and criteria for designation as a community
mental health facility and for designation as an alcohol and drug abuse facility. Such mental
health services shall include:
(a) Outpatient mental health services including preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic,
rehabilitative, and palliative interventions rendered to individuals in an individual or group
setting by a mental health professional in accordance with a plan of treatment appropriately
established, implemented, monitored, and revised under the auspices of a therapeutic team as
a part of client services management;

(b) Clinic mental health services including preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic,
rehabilitative, and palliative interventions rendered to individuals in an individual or group
setting by a mental health professional in accordance with a plan of treatment appropriately
established, implemented, monitored, and revised under the auspices of a therapeutic team as
a part of client services management;
(c) Rehabilitative mental health and alcohol and drug abuse services including home
and community-based preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitative, and palliative
interventions rendered to individuals in an individual or group setting by a mental health
or alcohol and drug abuse professional in accordance with a plan of treatment appropriately
established, implemented, monitored, and revised under the auspices of a therapeutic team as
a part of client services management. As used in this section, mental health professional and
alcohol and drug abuse professional shall be defined by the department of mental health
pursuant to duly promulgated rules. With respect to services established by this subdivision,
the department of social services, MO HealthNet division, shall enter into an agreement with
the department of mental health. Matching funds for outpatient mental health services, clinic
mental health services, and rehabilitation services for mental health and alcohol and drug
abuse shall be certified by the department of mental health to the MO HealthNet division.
The agreement shall establish a mechanism for the joint implementation of the provisions of
this subdivision. In addition, the agreement shall establish a mechanism by which rates for
services may be jointly developed;
(17) Such additional services as defined by the MO HealthNet division to be
furnished under waivers of federal statutory requirements as provided for and authorized by
the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. Section 301, et seq.) subject to appropriation by the
general assembly;
(18) The services of an advanced practice registered nurse with a collaborative
practice agreement to the extent that such services are provided in accordance with chapters
and 335, and regulations promulgated thereunder;
(19) Nursing home costs for participants receiving benefit payments under
subdivision (4) of this subsection to reserve a bed for the participant in the nursing home
during the time that the participant is absent due to admission to a hospital for services which
cannot be performed on an outpatient basis, subject to the provisions of this subdivision:
(a) The provisions of this subdivision shall apply only if:
a. The occupancy rate of the nursing home is at or above ninety-seven percent of MO
HealthNet certified licensed beds, according to the most recent quarterly census provided to
the department of health and senior services which was taken prior to when the participant is
admitted to the hospital; and

b. The patient is admitted to a hospital for a medical condition with an anticipated
stay of three days or less;
(b) The payment to be made under this subdivision shall be provided for a maximum
of three days per hospital stay;
(c) For each day that nursing home costs are paid on behalf of a participant under this
subdivision during any period of six consecutive months such participant shall, during the
same period of six consecutive months, be ineligible for payment of nursing home costs of
two otherwise available temporary leave of absence days provided under subdivision (5) of
this subsection; and
(d) The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply unless the nursing home
receives notice from the participant or the participant's responsible party that the participant
intends to return to the nursing home following the hospital stay. If the nursing home receives
such notification and all other provisions of this subsection have been satisfied, the nursing
home shall provide notice to the participant or the participant's responsible party prior to
release of the reserved bed;
(20) Prescribed medically necessary durable medical equipment. An electronic webbased prior authorization system using best medical evidence and care and treatment
guidelines consistent with national standards shall be used to verify medical need;
(21) Hospice care. As used in this subdivision, the term "hospice care" means a
coordinated program of active professional medical attention within a home, outpatient and
inpatient care which treats the terminally ill patient and family as a unit, employing a
medically directed interdisciplinary team. The program provides relief of severe pain or other
physical symptoms and supportive care to meet the special needs arising out of physical,
psychological, spiritual, social, and economic stresses which are experienced during the final
stages of illness, and during dying and bereavement and meets the Medicare requirements for
participation as a hospice as are provided in 42 CFR Part 418. The rate of reimbursement
paid by the MO HealthNet division to the hospice provider for room and board furnished by a
nursing home to an eligible hospice patient shall not be less than ninety-five percent of the
rate of reimbursement which would have been paid for facility services in that nursing home
facility for that patient, in accordance with subsection (c) of Section 6408 of P.L. 101-239
(Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989);
(22) Prescribed medically necessary dental services. Such services shall be subject to
appropriations. An electronic web-based prior authorization system using best medical
evidence and care and treatment guidelines consistent with national standards shall be used to
verify medical need;
(23) Prescribed medically necessary optometric services. Such services shall be
subject to appropriations. An electronic web-based prior authorization system using best

medical evidence and care and treatment guidelines consistent with national standards shall
be used to verify medical need;
(24) Blood clotting products-related services. For persons diagnosed with a bleeding
disorder, as defined in section 338.400, reliant on blood clotting products, as defined in
section 338.400, such services include:
(a) Home delivery of blood clotting products and ancillary infusion equipment and
supplies, including the emergency deliveries of the product when medically necessary;
(b) Medically necessary ancillary infusion equipment and supplies required to
administer the blood clotting products; and
(c) Assessments conducted in the participant's home by a pharmacist, nurse, or local
home health care agency trained in bleeding disorders when deemed necessary by the
participant's treating physician;
(25) Medically necessary cochlear implants and hearing instruments, as defined in
section 345.015, that are:
(a) Prescribed by an audiologist, as defined in section 345.015; or
(b) Dispensed by a hearing instrument specialist, as defined in section 346.010;
(26) The MO HealthNet division shall, by January 1, 2008, and annually thereafter,
report the status of MO HealthNet provider reimbursement rates as compared to one hundred
percent of the Medicare reimbursement rates and compared to the average dental
reimbursement rates paid by third-party payors licensed by the state. The MO HealthNet
division shall, by July 1, 2008, provide to the general assembly a four-year plan to achieve
parity with Medicare reimbursement rates and for third-party payor average dental
reimbursement rates. Such plan shall be subject to appropriation and the division shall
include in its annual budget request to the governor the necessary funding needed to complete
the four-year plan developed under this subdivision.
2. Additional benefit payments for medical assistance shall be made on behalf of
those eligible needy children, pregnant women and blind persons with any payments to be
made on the basis of the reasonable cost of the care or reasonable charge for the services as
defined and determined by the MO HealthNet division, unless otherwise hereinafter provided,
for the following:
(1) Dental services;
(2) Services of podiatrists as defined in section 330.010;
(3) Optometric services as described in section 336.010;
(4) Orthopedic devices or other prosthetics, including eye glasses, dentures, and
wheelchairs;
(5) Hospice care. As used in this subdivision, the term "hospice care" means a
coordinated program of active professional medical attention within a home, outpatient and

inpatient care which treats the terminally ill patient and family as a unit, employing a
medically directed interdisciplinary team. The program provides relief of severe pain or other
physical symptoms and supportive care to meet the special needs arising out of physical,
psychological, spiritual, social, and economic stresses which are experienced during the final
stages of illness, and during dying and bereavement and meets the Medicare requirements for
participation as a hospice as are provided in 42 CFR Part 418. The rate of reimbursement
paid by the MO HealthNet division to the hospice provider for room and board furnished by a
nursing home to an eligible hospice patient shall not be less than ninety-five percent of the
rate of reimbursement which would have been paid for facility services in that nursing home
facility for that patient, in accordance with subsection (c) of Section 6408 of P.L. 101-239
(Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989);
(6) Comprehensive day rehabilitation services beginning early posttrauma as part of a
coordinated system of care for individuals with disabling impairments. Rehabilitation
services must be based on an individualized, goal-oriented, comprehensive and coordinated
treatment plan developed, implemented, and monitored through an interdisciplinary
assessment designed to restore an individual to an optimal level of physical, cognitive, and
behavioral function. The MO HealthNet division shall establish by administrative rule the
definition and criteria for designation of a comprehensive day rehabilitation service facility,
benefit limitations and payment mechanism. Any rule or portion of a rule, as that term is
defined in section 536.010, that is created under the authority delegated in this subdivision
shall become effective only if it complies with and is subject to all of the provisions of
chapter 536 and, if applicable, section 536.028. This section and chapter 536 are
nonseverable and if any of the powers vested with the general assembly pursuant to chapter
to review, to delay the effective date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently
held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking authority and any rule proposed or
adopted after August 28, 2005, shall be invalid and void.
3. The MO HealthNet division may require any participant receiving MO HealthNet
benefits to pay part of the charge or cost until July 1, 2008, and an additional payment after
July 1, 2008, as defined by rule duly promulgated by the MO HealthNet division, for all
covered services except for those services covered under subdivisions (15) and (16) of
subsection 1 of this section and sections 208.631 to 208.657 to the extent and in the manner
authorized by Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. Section 1396, et seq.)
and regulations thereunder. When substitution of a generic drug is permitted by the prescriber
according to section 338.056, and a generic drug is substituted for a name-brand drug, the
MO HealthNet division may not lower or delete the requirement to make a co-payment
pursuant to regulations of Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act. A provider of goods
or services described under this section must collect from all participants the additional

payment that may be required by the MO HealthNet division under authority granted herein,
if the division exercises that authority, to remain eligible as a provider. Any payments made
by participants under this section shall be in addition to and not in lieu of payments made by
the state for goods or services described herein except the participant portion of the pharmacy
professional dispensing fee shall be in addition to and not in lieu of payments to pharmacists.
A provider may collect the co-payment at the time a service is provided or at a later date. A
provider shall not refuse to provide a service if a participant is unable to pay a required
payment. If it is the routine business practice of a provider to terminate future services to an
individual with an unclaimed debt, the provider may include uncollected co-payments under
this practice. Providers who elect not to undertake the provision of services based on a
history of bad debt shall give participants advance notice and a reasonable opportunity for
payment. A provider, representative, employee, independent contractor, or agent of a
pharmaceutical manufacturer shall not make co-payment for a participant. This subsection
shall not apply to other qualified children, pregnant women, or blind persons. If the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services does not approve the MO HealthNet state plan
amendment submitted by the department of social services that would allow a provider to
deny future services to an individual with uncollected co-payments, the denial of services
shall not be allowed. The department of social services shall inform providers regarding the
acceptability of denying services as the result of unpaid co-payments.
4. The MO HealthNet division shall have the right to collect medication samples from
participants in order to maintain program integrity.
5. Reimbursement for obstetrical and pediatric services under subdivision (6) of
subsection 1 of this section shall be timely and sufficient to enlist enough health care
providers so that care and services are available under the state plan for MO HealthNet
benefits at least to the extent that such care and services are available to the general
population in the geographic area, as required under subparagraph (a)(30)(A) of 42 U.S.C.
Section 1396a and federal regulations promulgated thereunder.
6. Beginning July 1, 1990, reimbursement for services rendered in federally funded
health centers shall be in accordance with the provisions of subsection 6402(c) and Section
of P.L. 101-239 (Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989) and federal regulations
promulgated thereunder.
7. Beginning July 1, 1990, the department of social services shall provide notification
and referral of children below age five, and pregnant, breast-feeding, or postpartum women
who are determined to be eligible for MO HealthNet benefits under section 208.151 to the
special supplemental food programs for women, infants and children administered by the
department of health and senior services. Such notification and referral shall conform to the
requirements of Section 6406 of P.L. 101-239 and regulations promulgated thereunder.

8. Providers of long-term care services shall be reimbursed for their costs in
accordance with the provisions of Section 1902 (a)(13)(A) of the Social Security Act, 42
U.S.C. Section 1396a, as amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
9. Reimbursement rates to long-term care providers with respect to a total change in
ownership, at arm's length, for any facility previously licensed and certified for participation
in the MO HealthNet program shall not increase payments in excess of the increase that
would result from the application of Section 1902 (a)(13)(C) of the Social Security Act, 42
U.S.C. Section 1396a (a)(13)(C).
10. The MO HealthNet division may enroll qualified residential care facilities and
assisted living facilities, as defined in chapter 198, as MO HealthNet personal care providers.
11. Any income earned by individuals eligible for certified extended employment at a
sheltered workshop under chapter 178 shall not be considered as income for purposes of
determining eligibility under this section.
12. If the Missouri Medicaid audit and compliance unit changes any interpretation or
application of the requirements for reimbursement for MO HealthNet services from the
interpretation or application that has been applied previously by the state in any audit of a MO
HealthNet provider, the Missouri Medicaid audit and compliance unit shall notify all affected
MO HealthNet providers five business days before such change shall take effect. Failure of
the Missouri Medicaid audit and compliance unit to notify a provider of such change shall
entitle the provider to continue to receive and retain reimbursement until such notification is
provided and shall waive any liability of such provider for recoupment or other loss of any
payments previously made prior to the five business days after such notice has been sent.
Each provider shall provide the Missouri Medicaid audit and compliance unit a valid email
address and shall agree to receive communications electronically. The notification required
under this section shall be delivered in writing by the United States Postal Service or
electronic mail to each provider.
13. Nothing in this section shall be construed to abrogate or limit the department's
statutory requirement to promulgate rules under chapter 536.
14. Beginning July 1, 2016, and subject to appropriations, providers of behavioral,
social, and psychophysiological services for the prevention, treatment, or management of
physical health problems shall be reimbursed utilizing the behavior assessment and
intervention reimbursement codes 96150 to 96154 or their successor codes under the
Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) coding system. Providers eligible for such
reimbursement shall include psychologists.
15. There shall be no payments made under this section for gender transition
surgeries, cross-sex hormones, or puberty-blocking drugs[, as such terms are defined in
section 191.1720,] for the purpose of a gender transition.

217.230. The director shall arrange for necessary health care services for offenders
confined in correctional centers, which shall not include any gender transition surgery[, as
defined in section 191.1720].
221.120. 1. If any prisoner confined in the county jail is sick and in the judgment of
the jailer, requires the attention of a physician, dental care, or medicine, the jailer shall
procure the necessary medicine, dental care or medical attention necessary or proper to
maintain the health of the prisoner; provided, that this shall not include any gender transition
surgery[, as defined in section 191.1720]. The costs of such medicine, dental care, or medical
attention shall be paid by the prisoner through any health insurance policy as defined in
subsection 3 of this section, from which the prisoner is eligible to receive benefits. If the
prisoner is not eligible for such health insurance benefits then the prisoner shall be liable for
the payment of such medical attention, dental care, or medicine, and the assets of such
prisoner may be subject to levy and execution under court order to satisfy such expenses in
accordance with the provisions of section 221.070, and any other applicable law. The county
commission of the county may at times authorize payment of certain medical costs that the
county commission determines to be necessary and reasonable. As used in this section, the
term "medical costs" includes the actual costs of medicine, dental care or other medical
attention and necessary costs associated with such medical care such as transportation, guards
and inpatient care.
2. The county commission may, in [their] its discretion, employ a physician by the
year, to attend such prisoners, and make such reasonable charge for his or her service and
medicine, when required, to be taxed and collected as provided by law.
3. As used in this section, the following terms mean:
(1) "Assets", property, tangible or intangible, real or personal, belonging to or due a
prisoner or a former prisoner, including income or payments to such prisoner from Social
Security, workers' compensation, veterans' compensation, pension benefits, previously earned
salary or wages, bonuses, annuities, retirement benefits, compensation paid to the prisoner per
work or services performed while a prisoner or from any other source whatsoever, including
any of the following:
(a) Money or other tangible assets received by the prisoner as a result of a settlement
of a claim against the state, any agency thereof, or any claim against an employee or
independent contractor arising from and in the scope of the employee's or contractor's official
duties on behalf of the state or any agency thereof;
(b) A money judgment received by the prisoner from the state as a result of a civil
action in which the state, an agency thereof or any state employee or independent contractor
where such judgment arose from a claim arising from the conduct of official duties on behalf
of the state by the employee or subcontractor or for any agency of the state;

(c) A current stream of income from any source whatsoever, including a salary,
wages, disability benefits, retirement benefits, pension benefits, insurance or annuity benefits,
or similar payments; [and]
(2) "Health insurance policy", any group insurance policy providing coverage on an
expense-incurred basis, any group service or indemnity contract issued by a not-for-profit
health services corporation or any self-insured group health benefit plan of any type or
description.

[191.1720. 1. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
"Missouri Save Adolescents from Experimentation (SAFE) Act".
2. For purposes of this section, the following terms mean:
(1) "Biological sex", the biological indication of male or female in the
context of reproductive potential or capacity, such as sex chromosomes,
naturally occurring sex hormones, gonads, and nonambiguous internal and
external genitalia present at birth, without regard to an individual's
psychological, chosen, or subjective experience of gender;
(2) "Cross-sex hormones", testosterone, estrogen, or other androgens
given to an individual in amounts that are greater or more potent than would
normally occur naturally in a healthy individual of the same age and sex;
(3) "Gender", the psychological, behavioral, social, and cultural
aspects of being male or female;
(4) "Gender transition", the process in which an individual transitions
from identifying with and living as a gender that corresponds to his or her
biological sex to identifying with and living as a gender different from his or
her biological sex, and may involve social, legal, or physical changes;
(5) "Gender transition surgery", a surgical procedure performed for the
purpose of assisting an individual with a gender transition, including, but not
limited to:
(a) Surgical procedures that sterilize, including, but not limited to,
castration, vasectomy, hysterectomy, oophorectomy, orchiectomy, or
penectomy;
(b) Surgical procedures that artificially construct tissue with the
appearance of genitalia that differs from the individual's biological sex,
including, but not limited to, metoidioplasty, phalloplasty, or vaginoplasty; or
(c) Augmentation mammoplasty or subcutaneous mastectomy;
(6) "Health care provider", an individual who is licensed, certified, or
otherwise authorized by the laws of this state to administer health care in the
ordinary course of the practice of his or her profession;
(7) "Puberty-blocking drugs", gonadotropin-releasing hormone
analogues or other synthetic drugs used to stop luteinizing hormone
secretion and follicle stimulating hormone secretion, synthetic antiandrogen
drugs to block the androgen receptor, or any other drug used to delay or
suppress pubertal development in children for the purpose of assisting an
individual with a gender transition.
3. A health care provider shall not knowingly perform a gender
transition surgery on any individual under eighteen years of age.

4. (1) A health care provider shall not knowingly prescribe or
administer cross-sex hormones or puberty-blocking drugs for the purpose of a
gender transition for any individual under eighteen years of age.
(2) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the prescription
or administration of cross-sex hormones or puberty-blocking drugs for any
individual under eighteen years of age who was prescribed or administered
such hormones or drugs prior to August 28, 2023, for the purpose of assisting
the individual with a gender transition.
(3) The provisions of this subsection shall expire on August 28, 2027.
5. The performance of a gender transition surgery or the prescription
or administration of cross-sex hormones or puberty-blocking drugs to an
individual under eighteen years of age in violation of this section shall be
considered unprofessional conduct and any health care provider doing so shall
have his or her license to practice revoked by the appropriate licensing entity
or disciplinary review board with competent jurisdiction in this state.
6. (1) The prescription or administration of cross-sex hormones or
puberty-blocking drugs to an individual under eighteen years of age for the
purpose of a gender transition shall be considered grounds for a cause of action
against the health care provider. The provisions of chapter 538 shall not apply
to any action brought under this subsection.
(2) An action brought pursuant to this subsection shall be brought
within fifteen years of the individual injured attaining the age of twenty-one or
of the date the treatment of the injury at issue in the action by the defendant
has ceased, whichever is later.
(3) An individual bringing an action under this subsection shall be
entitled to a rebuttable presumption that the individual was harmed if the
individual is infertile following the prescription or administration of cross-sex
hormones or puberty-blocking drugs and that the harm was a direct result of
the hormones or drugs prescribed or administered by the health care provider.
Such presumption may be rebutted only by clear and convincing evidence.
(4) In any action brought pursuant to this subsection, a plaintiff may
recover economic and noneconomic damages and punitive damages, without
limitation to the amount and no less than five hundred thousand dollars in the
aggregate. The judgment against a defendant in an action brought pursuant to
this subsection shall be in an amount of three times the amount of any
economic and noneconomic damages or punitive damages assessed. Any
award of damages in an action brought pursuant to this subsection to a
prevailing plaintiff shall include attorney's fees and court costs.
(5) An action brought pursuant to this subsection may be brought in
any circuit court of this state.
(6) No health care provider shall require a waiver of the right to bring
an action pursuant to this subsection as a condition of services. The right to
bring an action by or through an individual under the age of eighteen shall not
be waived by a parent or legal guardian.
(7) A plaintiff to an action brought under this subsection may enter
into a voluntary agreement of settlement or compromise of the action, but no
agreement shall be valid until approved by the court. No agreement allowed
by the court shall include a provision regarding the nondisclosure or

confidentiality of the terms of such agreement unless such provision was
specifically requested and agreed to by the plaintiff.
(8) If requested by the plaintiff, any pleadings, attachments, or exhibits
filed with the court in any action brought pursuant to this subsection, as well as
any judgments issued by the court in such actions, shall not include the
personal identifying information of the plaintiff. Such information shall be
provided in a confidential information filing sheet contemporaneously filed
with the court or entered by the court, which shall not be subject to public
inspection or availability.
7. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any speech
protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.
8. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
(1) Services to individuals born with a medically-verifiable disorder of
sex development, including, but not limited to, an individual with external
biological sex characteristics that are irresolvably ambiguous, such as those
born with 46,XX chromosomes with virilization, 46,XY chromosomes with
undervirilization, or having both ovarian and testicular tissue;
(2) Services provided when a physician has otherwise diagnosed an
individual with a disorder of sex development and determined through genetic
or biochemical testing that the individual does not have normal sex
chromosome structure, sex steroid hormone production, or sex steroid
hormone action;
(3) The treatment of any infection, injury, disease, or disorder that has
been caused by or exacerbated by the performance of gender transition surgery
or the prescription or administration of cross-sex hormones or pubertyblocking drugs regardless of whether the surgery was performed or the
hormones or drugs were prescribed or administered in accordance with state
and federal law; or
(4) Any procedure undertaken because the individual suffers from a
physical disorder, physical injury, or physical illness that would, as certified by
a physician, place the individual in imminent danger of death or impairment of
a major bodily function unless surgery is performed.]
✔
