Senate File 2199 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2199
BY COMMITTEE ON TECHNOLOGY
(SUCCESSOR TO SSB 3013)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to the ownership of artificial intelligence
output and trained artificial intelligence.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 5387SV (1) 91
dg/jh

Section 1. NEW SECTION. 554J.1 Definitions.
For purposes of this chapter:
1. “Artificial intelligence” means a machine-based system
that, for any explicit or implicit objective, infers from the
input the system receives to generate output that can influence
physical or virtual environments.
2. “Input” means data, directives, or instructions that a
user provides to guide the creation of new output.
3. “Output” means new content that an artificial
intelligence generates based on a user’s input in relation to
the data used to train the artificial intelligence. “Output”
includes but is not limited to audio-visual media, images,
predictions, recommendations, and text.
4. “Train” means to expose an artificial intelligence to
data for the purpose of making the artificial intelligence
recognize patterns, relationships, and structures between data
so the artificial intelligence can employ knowledge of those
patterns, relationships, and structures to create new output.
5. “User” means a person that uses artificial intelligence
for the purpose of generating output. “User” does not include
a person giving data to an artificial intelligence for the
purpose of training the artificial intelligence.
Sec. 2. NEW SECTION. 554J.2 Ownership of output ——
ownership of trained artificial intelligence.
1. Subject to subsection 3, a user who provides input to an
artificial intelligence shall be the owner of the output the
artificial intelligence generates that was based on the user’s
input, provided that the output does not infringe on a third
party’s existing copyrights or intellectual property rights.
2. Subject to subsection 3, a person that trains an
artificial intelligence shall be the owner of artificial
intelligence that results from the training if all of the
following apply:
a. The training data was lawfully acquired and used for
training purposes.

dg/jh

1/3

b. The person has not transferred ownership rights of the
resulting artificial intelligence to another person through a
contract or agreement.
3. If a person uses artificial intelligence as a part of
the person’s employment duties, the resulting output or trained
artificial intelligence shall be the property of the person’s
employer if all of the following apply:
a. The person’s use of artificial intelligence is within the
scope of the person’s employment.
b. The person’s use of the artificial intelligence was
conducted under the direction and control of the employer.
c. If applicable, the output does not infringe on a third
party’s existing copyrights or intellectual property rights.
d. If applicable, the training data was lawfully acquired
and used for training purposes.
4. This section shall not be construed to grant ownership
of property if such a grant of ownership would infringe on a
preexisting copyright or other intellectual property right.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill relates to the ownership of artificial
intelligence output and trained artificial intelligence.
The bill defines “artificial intelligence”, “input”,
“output”, “train”, and “user”.
The bill makes a user who provides input to an artificial
intelligence (AI) the owner of the output generated by the AI
that was based on the user’s input, provided that the output
does not infringe on a third party’s existing copyrights or
intellectual property rights.
The bill makes a person that trains an AI the owner of
AI that results from the training if the training data was
lawfully acquired and used for training purposes and the person
has not transferred ownership rights of the resulting AI
through a contract or agreement.

dg/jh

2/3

If a person uses AI as a part of the person’s employment
duties, the bill makes the resulting output or trained AI
the property of the person’s employer if certain conditions
detailed in the bill are met.
The bill shall not be construed to grant ownership of
property if such a grant of ownership would infringe on a
preexisting copyright or other intellectual property right.

dg/jh

3/3
