SECOND REGULAR SESSION

HOUSE BILL NO. 2032
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE SCHMIDT.
5323H.01I

JOSEPH ENGLER, Chief Clerk

AN ACT
To amend chapter 1, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to the implementation
of age verification measures for artificial intelligence chatbots, with penalty
provisions.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Chapter 1, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
known as section 1.2058, to read as follows:
1.2058. 1. This section shall be known and may be cited as the "Guidelines for
User Age-Verification and Responsible Dialogue Act of 2026" or the "GUARD Act".
2. As used in this section, the following terms mean:
(1) "AI companion", an artificial intelligence chatbot that:
(a) Provides adaptive, human-like responses to user inputs; and
(b) Is designed to encourage or facilitate the simulation of interpersonal or
emotional interaction, friendship, companionship, or therapeutic communication;
(2) "Artificial intelligence chatbot":
(a) Any interactive computer service or software application that:
a. Produces new expressive content or responses not fully predetermined by the
developer or operator of the service or application; and
b. Accepts open-ended natural language or multimodal user input and produces
adaptive or context-responsive output; and
(b) Does not include an interactive computer service or software application, the
responses of which are limited to contextualized replies and that is unable to respond on
a range of topics outside of a narrow, specified purpose;
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.

(3) "Covered entity", any person who owns, operates, or otherwise makes
available an artificial intelligence chatbot to individuals in this state;
(4) "Minor", any person seventeen years of age or under;
(5) "Reasonable age verification measure", a method that is authenticated to
relate to a user of an artificial intelligence chatbot, including:
(a) A government-issued identification; or
(b) Any other commercially reasonable method that can reliably and accurately:
a. Determine whether a user is an adult; and
b. Prevent access by minors to AI companions, as required by subsection 6 of
this section;
(6) "Reasonable age verification process", an age verification process employed
by a covered entity that:
(a) Uses one or more reasonable age verification measures in order to verify the
age of a user of an artificial intelligence chatbot owned, operated, or otherwise made
available by the covered entity;
(b) Provides that requiring a user to confirm that the user is not a minor, or to
insert the user's birth date, is not sufficient to constitute a reasonable age verification
measure;
(c) Ensures that each user is subjected to each reasonable age verification
measure used by the covered entity as part of the age verification process; and
(d) Does not base verification of a user's age on factors such as whether the user
shares an internet protocol address, hardware identifier, or other technical indicator
with another user determined not to be a minor;
(7) "Sexually explicit conduct", the same meaning as defined under section
573.010.
3. (1) It shall be unlawful to design, develop, or make available an artificial
intelligence chatbot knowing or with reckless disregard for the fact that the artificial
intelligence chatbot poses a risk of soliciting, encouraging, or inducing minors to:
(a) Engage in, describe, or simulate sexually explicit conduct; or
(b) Create or transmit any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct,
including any visual depiction described in section 573.010.
(2) Any person who violates subdivision (1) of this subsection shall be fined not
more than one hundred thousand dollars per offense.
4. (1) It shall be unlawful to design, develop, or make available an artificial
intelligence chatbot knowing or with reckless disregard for the fact that the artificial
intelligence chatbot encourages, promotes, or coerces suicide, nonsuicidal self-injury, or
imminent physical or sexual violence.

(2) Any person who violates subdivision (1) of this subsection shall be fined not
more than one hundred thousand dollars per offense.
5. (1) A covered entity shall require each individual accessing an artificial
intelligence chatbot to make a user account in order to use or otherwise interact with
such chatbot.
(2) (a) With respect to each user account of an artificial intelligence chatbot that
exists as of August 28, 2026, a covered entity shall:
a. On such date, freeze any such account;
b. In order to restore the functionality of such account, require that the user
provide age data that is verifiable using a reasonable age verification process, subject to
paragraph (d) of this subdivision; and
c. Using such age data, classify each user as a minor or an adult.
(b) At the time an individual creates a new user account to use or interact with
an artificial intelligence chatbot, a covered entity shall:
a. Request age data from the individual;
b. Verify the individual's age using a reasonable age verification process, subject
to paragraph (d) of this subdivision; and
c. Using such age data, classify each user as a minor or an adult.
(c) A covered entity shall periodically review previously verified user accounts
using a reasonable age verification process, subject to paragraph (d) of this subdivision,
to ensure compliance with this section.
(d) For purposes of subparagraph b. of paragraph (a) of this subdivision,
subparagraph b. of paragraph (b) of this subdivision, and paragraph (c) of this
subdivision, a covered entity may contract with a third party to employ reasonable age
verification measures as part of the covered entity's reasonable age verification process,
but the use of such third party shall not relieve the covered entity of its obligations
under this section or from liability under this section.
(e) A covered entity shall:
a. Establish, implement, and maintain reasonable data security to:
(i) Limit collection of personal data to that which is minimally necessary to
verify a user's age or maintain compliance with this section; and
(ii) Protect such age verification data against unauthorized access;
b. Protect such age verification data against unauthorized access;
c. Protect the integrity and confidentiality of such data by only transmitting such
data using industry-standard encryption protocols;
d. Retain such data for no longer than is reasonably necessary to verify a user's
age or maintain compliance with this section; and

e. Not share with, transfer to, or sell to any other entity such data.
(3) (a) Each artificial intelligence chatbot made available to users shall:
a. At the initiation of each conversation with a user and at thirty-minute
intervals, clearly and conspicuously disclose to the user that the chatbot is an artificial
intelligence system and not a human being; and
b. Be programmed to ensure that the chatbot does not claim to be a human being
or otherwise respond deceptively when asked by a user if the chatbot is a human being.
(b) a. An artificial intelligence chatbot shall not represent, directly or indirectly,
that the chatbot is a licensed professional, including a therapist, physician, lawyer,
financial advisor, or other professional.
b. Each artificial intelligence chatbot made available to users shall, at the
initiation of each conversation with a user and at reasonably regular intervals, clearly
and conspicuously disclose to the user that:
(i) The chatbot does not provide medical, legal, financial, or psychological
services; and
(ii) Users of the chatbot should consult a licensed professional for such advice.
6. If the age verification process described in subdivision (2) of subsection 5 of
this section determines that an individual is a minor, a covered entity shall prohibit the
minor from accessing or using any AI companion owned, operated, or otherwise made
available by the covered entity.
7. (1) In the case of a violation of subsection 5 or 6 of this section, or a rule or
regulation promulgated thereunder, the attorney general may bring a civil action in an
appropriate circuit court to:
(a) Enjoin the violation;
(b) Enforce compliance with subsection 5 or 6 of this section, or any rules or
regulations promulgated thereunder; or
(c) Obtain civil penalties under subdivision (3) of this subsection, restitution, or
other appropriate relief.
(2) (a) For the purpose of conducting investigations or bringing enforcement
actions under this section, the attorney general may issue subpoenas, administer oaths,
and compel the production of documents or testimony.
(b) The attorney general may promulgate all necessary rules and regulations for
the administration of this section. Any rule or portion of a rule, as that term is defined
in section 536.010, that is created under the authority delegated in this section shall
become effective only if it complies with and is subject to all of the provisions of chapter
and, if applicable, section 536.028. This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable
and if any of the powers vested with the general assembly pursuant to chapter 536 to

review, to delay the effective date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently
held unconstitutional, then the grant of rulemaking authority and any rule proposed or
adopted after August 28, 2026, shall be invalid and void.
(3) (a) Any person who violates subsection 5 or 6 of this section, or any rule or
regulation promulgated thereunder, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed one
hundred thousand dollars for each violation.
(b) Each violation described in paragraph (a) of this subdivision shall be
considered a separate violation.
(4) In any case in which the attorney general has reason to believe that an
interest of the residents of this state has been or is being threatened or adversely affected
by the engagement of any covered entity in a violation of this section, or any rule or
regulation promulgated thereunder, the attorney general, as parens patriae, may bring a
civil action on behalf of the residents of this state in a circuit court of this state with
appropriate jurisdiction to obtain injunctive relief.
✔
