MISSISSIPPI LEGISLATURE

REGULAR SESSION 2026

By:

To: Apportionment and
Elections

Representatives Scott, Anthony

HOUSE BILL NO.

AN ACT TO AMEND SECTIONS 23-15-653, 23-15-637 AND 23-15-715,
MISSISSIPPI CODE OF 1972, TO REQUIRE THE REGISTRAR'S OFFICE TO
REMAIN OPEN UNTIL 5:00 P.M. ON THE TWO SATURDAYS IMMEDIATELY
PRECEDING THE ELECTION FOR ABSENTEE VOTING; AND FOR RELATED
PURPOSES.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI:

SECTION 1.

amended as follows:

23-15-653.

Section 23-15-653, Mississippi Code of 1972, is

All registrars' offices shall remain open

until * * * 5:00 p.m. on the two (2) Saturdays prior to each

election.

SECTION 2.

Section 23-15-637, Mississippi Code of 1972, is

amended as follows:

23-15-637.

(1)

(a)

Absentee ballots and applications

received by mail, except for fax or electronically transmitted

ballots as otherwise provided by Section 23-15-699 for UOCAVA

ballots, or common carrier, such as United Parcel Service or FedEx

Corporation, must be postmarked on or before the date of the

election and received by the registrar no more than five (5)
H. B. No.
PAGE 1 (RKM\KW)

*HR26/R1265*

~ OFFICIAL ~

G1/2

business days after the election; any received after such time

shall be handled as provided in Section 23-15-647 and shall not be

counted.

(b)

All ballots cast by the absent elector appearing in

person in the office of the registrar shall be cast with an

absentee paper ballot and deposited into a sealed ballot box by

the voter, not later than * * * 5:00 p.m. on the Saturday

immediately preceding elections held on Tuesday, the Thursday

immediately preceding elections held on Saturday, or the second

day immediately preceding the date of elections held on other

days.

registrar, the ballot box used shall be sealed and not unsealed

until the beginning of the next business day, and the seal number

shall be recorded with the number of ballots cast which shall be

stored in a secure location in the registrar's office.

At the close of business each day at the office of the

(2)

The registrar shall deposit all absentee ballots which

have been timely cast and received by mail in a secured and sealed

box in a designated location in the registrar's office upon

receipt.

precinct polling locations.

(3)

The registrar shall not send any absentee ballots to the

The Secretary of State shall promulgate rules and

regulations necessary to ensure that when a qualified elector who

is qualified to vote absentee votes by absentee ballot, either by

mail or in person with a regular paper ballot, that person's

absentee vote is final and he or she may not vote at the polling
H. B. No.
PAGE 2 (RKM\KW)

*HR26/R1265*

~ OFFICIAL ~

place on election day.

law to the contrary, the Secretary of State shall promulgate rules

and regulations necessary to ensure that absentee ballots shall

remain in the registrar's office for counting and not be taken to

the precincts on election day.

SECTION 3.

amended as follows:

23-15-715.

Notwithstanding any other provisions of

Section 23-15-715, Mississippi Code of 1972, is

Any elector desiring an absentee ballot as

provided in this subarticle may secure * * * an absentee ballot

if:

(a)

Not more than forty-five (45) days nor later

than * * * 5:00 p.m., on the Saturday immediately preceding

elections held on Tuesday, the Thursday immediately preceding

elections held on Saturday, or the second day immediately

preceding the date of elections held on other days, he or

she * * * appears in person before the registrar of the county in

which he or she resides, or for municipal elections, he * * * or

she appears in person before the city clerk of the municipality in

which he or she resides and, when the elector so appears, he or

she shall execute and file an application as provided in Section

23-15-627 and vote by absentee ballot.

not been printed by forty-five (45) days preceding the election,

the elector may appear and file an application anytime before the

election.

registrar to the elector as soon as the ballot has been printed.

If the absentee ballot has

Then the absentee ballot shall be mailed by the

H. B. No.
PAGE 3 (RKM\KW)

*HR26/R1265*

~ OFFICIAL ~

(b)

Within forty-five (45) days next prior to any

election, any elector who cannot comply with paragraph (a) of this

section by reason of temporarily residing outside the county, or

any person who has a temporary or permanent physical disability,

persons who are sixty-five (65) years of age or older, any person

who is incarcerated in prison or jail in the county where the

person is registered to vote and has not been convicted of a

disenfranchising crime, or any person who is the parent, spouse or

dependent of a temporarily or permanently physically disabled

person who is hospitalized outside of his or her county of

residence or more than fifty (50) miles away from his or her

residence and such parent, spouse or dependent will be with such

person on election day, may make application for an absentee

ballot by mailing the appropriate application to the registrar.

Only persons temporarily residing out of the county of their

residence, persons having a temporary or permanent physical

disability, persons who are sixty-five (65) years of age or older,

any person who is incarcerated in prison or jail in the county

where the person is registered to vote and has not been convicted

of a disenfranchising crime, or any person who is the parent,

spouse or dependent of a temporarily or permanently physically

disabled person who is hospitalized outside of his or her county

of residence or more than fifty (50) miles away from his or her

residence, and such parent, spouse or dependent will be with such

person on election day, may obtain absentee ballots by mail under
H. B. No.
PAGE 4 (RKM\KW)

*HR26/R1265*

~ OFFICIAL ~

the provisions of this subsection and as provided by Section

23-15-713.

the county shall be sworn to and subscribed before an official who

is authorized to administer oaths or other official authorized to

witness absentee balloting as provided in this chapter, * * * and

the application * * * must be accompanied by such verifying

affidavits as required by this chapter.

persons having a temporary or permanent physical disability shall

not be required to be accompanied by an affidavit but shall be

witnessed and signed by a person eighteen (18) years of age or

older.

absentee voter ballot within twenty-four (24) hours, or as soon

thereafter as the ballots are available, containing the names of

all candidates who qualify or the proposition to be voted on in

such election, and with such ballot there shall be sent an

official envelope containing upon it in printed form the recitals

and data hereinafter required.

Applications of persons temporarily residing outside

The applications of

The registrar shall send to such absent voter a proper

(c)

Except when the voter has requested a runoff ballot

on the initial absentee ballot application, upon request for a

runoff ballot pursuant to Section 23-15-719, the registrar shall

mail together the absentee ballot application and the absentee

ballot to the absent voter for the runoff election.

SECTION 4.

This act shall take effect and be in force from

and after July 1, 2026.

H. B. No.
PAGE 5 (RKM\KW)

~ OFFICIAL ~
ST: Absentee voting; extend time allowed on
Saturdays to 5:00 p.m.

*HR26/R1265*
