SESSION
26-2240
08/09
SENATE BILL

AN ACT

enabling the department of safety and the secretary of state to develop a process
to share certain information regarding REAL ID applicants.

SPONSORS:

Sen. Perkins Kwoka, Dist 21; Sen. Lang, Dist 2; Rep. Lane, Merr. 16; Rep.
Telerski, Hills. 11; Rep. Simpson, Rock. 33

COMMITTEE:

Election Law and Municipal Affairs

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
ANALYSIS
This bill enables the department of safety and the secretary of state to develop a process to share
certain information regarding REAL ID applicants.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------Explanation:

Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.
Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]
Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

26-2240
08/09

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty-Six
AN ACT

enabling the department of safety and the secretary of state to develop a process
to share certain information regarding REAL ID applicants.

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

New Section; Identification. Amend RSA 659 by inserting after section 13-b the following new
section:
659:13-c Citizenship Information; Secretary of State; Department of Safety.

I. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any United States citizen applying for an

enhanced identification card pursuant to RSA 260:21-b shall be given the opportunity to have their

photo image and information regarding their United States citizenship shared with the secretary of

state for voting identification purposes.

secretary of state shall develop an agreement to electronically transmit photo images and

information related to United States citizenship securely and confidentially by January 1, 2027.

The commissioner of the department of safety and the

II. The secretary of state shall transmit photo images and information related to United

States citizenship to the appropriate clerk to be used by the clerk, moderator, or supervisor of the

checklist for purposes of identification, if applicable. The secretary of state shall transmit photo

images and other United States citizenship information to the appropriate clerk within 3 days of

receipt of such photos and information. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the photo image

and United States citizenship information provided shall satisfy proof of citizenship documentation

requirements pursuant to RSA 654:7-a and RSA 654:12. In order to be used on election day, the

photo image and United States citizenship information shall be captured by the department of safety

no later than 14 days before the election.

III. In cities and towns that use electronic poll books under RSA 652:27, the clerk shall

download the photo image and United States citizenship information to the checklist no later than

the Friday before the election. In cities and towns that do not use electronic poll books, the clerk

shall confirm receipt of the photo image and United States citizenship information by marking the

column on the checklist for citizenship information under RSA 654:25. Nothing in this section shall

be construed as permitting the electronic poll book device to be connected to the Internet on election

day.

IV. The applicant may decline or withdraw consent to have his or her photo and United

States citizenship information shared with the secretary of state at any time by contacting the

department of safety. In the event the applicant declines or withdraws consent, the department of

safety and the secretary of state shall remove the photo image captured for the enhanced

- Page 2 1

identification card promptly and the secretary of state shall remove information regarding the

applicant's United States citizenship promptly.

V. Nothing in this section shall be construed as enabling the registering of an applicant at
an office of the department of safety or impacting an applicant's voter registration status.

Preparing Checklist. Amend RSA 654:25 to read as follows:

654:25 Preparing Checklist. The secretary of state shall issue and distribute guidelines for the

content, composition, and style of checklists and for the maintenance of data related to checklists by

which the supervisors of the checklist shall compile and correct the checklist. Such guidelines shall

specify the information which will be maintained and updated by the supervisors. The secretary

shall establish standard forms and procedures for the use of the supervisors for the maintenance of

such information.

domicile address, mailing address, citizenship status, if the clerk has received such

information from the secretary of state under RSA 659:13-c, and party affiliation, if any, of

each voter on the checklist and such other information as the secretary requires. Every checklist

used at any election shall at a minimum contain the full name, domicile address, mailing address,

and party affiliation, if any, of each voter on the checklist. The paper checklists used by ballot clerks

on election day need not include mailing addresses. The name and address of a voter shall not

appear on the checklist at the request of the voter if the voter presents to the supervisors of the

checklist a valid protective order pursuant to RSA 173-B. The name, domicile address, and mailing

address, if different, of such a voter shall be maintained on a separate list of voters, which shall be

nonpublic and not subject to RSA 91-A. If it is necessary to establish such a nonpublic list, the

public checklist shall be marked at the end with a notation of the number of voters whose names are

maintained on the nonpublic list.

The information to be maintained and updated shall include the full name,

Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2027.
