SB 655 - AS INTRODUCED
SESSION
26-3263
04/05
SENATE BILL

AN ACT

relative to employee leasing companies and workers' compensation coverage
options.

SPONSORS:

Sen. Innis, Dist 7; Sen. Rochefort, Dist 1; Sen. Murphy, Dist 16; Sen. Pearl, Dist
17; Sen. Ward, Dist 8; Sen. McGough, Dist 11; Rep. Labrie, Hills. 2; Rep. Peternel,
Carr. 6

COMMITTEE:

Commerce

─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
ANALYSIS
This bill permits client companies or leasing companies to secure workers' compensation
coverage.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------Explanation:

Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.
Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]
Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

SB 655 - AS INTRODUCED

26-3263
04/05

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty-Six
AN ACT

relative to employee leasing companies and workers' compensation coverage
options.

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

Employee Leasing Companies; License Application and Fees.

Amend the introductory

paragraph of RSA 277-B:5, IV to read as follows:

IV. Every application for an original, renewal, or restricted license[,] shall be accompanied

by evidence satisfactory to the commissioner that the leased employees are covered by workers'

compensation insurance issued by a carrier admitted to write such coverage in this state for leased

employees for whom the employee leasing company has the contractual obligation to

maintain workers compensation coverage. No unlicensed leasing company shall be provided

workers' compensation coverage.

obligation to maintain workers' compensation coverage for leased employees, may meet its

obligation to provide such insurance for leased employees through no more than 2 policies. When 2

policies are issued, one shall be issued in the voluntary market, and the other shall be issued in the

residual market.

An employee leasing company, if it has the contractual

New Paragraph; Employee Leasing Deemed Co-Employment.

Amend RSA 277-B:9 by

inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraph:
II-a.

Either the employee leasing company or the client company shall purchase and

maintain workers' compensation insurance for those employees in an employee leasing arrangement.

Employee Leasing Companies; Exclusivity and Vicarious Liability. Amend RSA 277-B:10 to

read as follows:

277-B:10

Exclusivity and Vicarious Liability.

An employee leasing company and its client

company shall both be entitled to the exclusivity of remedy provisions of RSA 281-A:8 regardless of

which entity purchases the workers' compensation insurance, and the employee leasing

company shall not be vicariously liable for the actions or omissions of the client company and the

client company shall not be vicariously liable for the actions or omissions of the employee leasing

company.

employee leasing company and the client company, nor shall the same limit any liability or

responsibility imposed by this chapter.

Nothing in this section shall prohibit any direct contractual liability between the

Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.
