-- H 7619
========
========

STATE

OF

RHODE

ISLAND

IN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
JANUARY SESSION, A.D. 2026
____________

AN ACT
RELATING TO FISH AND WILDLIFE -- LICENSING

Introduced By: Representatives Spears, McEntee, Donovan, Boylan, Tanzi, Fogarty,
Cotter, Speakman, Felix, and McGaw
Date Introduced: February 11, 2026
Referred To: House Environment and Natural Resources
(Dept. of Enviornmental Management)

It is enacted by the General Assembly as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 20-2-31 of the General Laws in Chapter 20-2 entitled "Licensing" is
hereby amended to read as follows:

20-2-31. Hunting and fishing licenses — Exceptions.

(a) Every valid license to hunt or fish in this state that is held by any resident of this state

upon joining the armed forces or the merchant marine of the United States is hereby extended and

is in force and valid until six (6) months following the termination of his or her service.

(b) Every member of the armed forces or of the merchant marine of the United States may

hunt or fish in this state if that person procures a hunting or fishing license issued by the state of

Rhode Island, the fee for which is that charged for a resident civilian.

(c) Every man or woman who was a part of the armed forces of the United States

government and is now a one hundred percent (100%) disabled veteran, and any man or woman

who is one hundred percent (100%) permanently disabled, is entitled, subject to the provisions of

this title, to receive a license to hunt or fish or both in this state; and upon the presentation of his or

her necessary military discharge identification or disability papers or both, as prescribed by the

department of environmental management, shall, at the discretion of the licensing authority,

receive, without the payment of any license fee, a continuing special form of license authorizing

the man or woman to hunt or fish or both in this state in accordance with the provisions of this title

and regulations issued pursuant to this title for so long as he or she so desires; provided, however,

that the man or woman, having once made application for this license, shall not again be required

to appear before the licensing authority to present his or her papers.

(d) A freshwater fishing license is not required of any blind person. For the purposes of

this section, a person is blind only if his or her central visual acuity does not exceed 20/200 in the

better eye with correcting lenses or if his or her visual acuity is greater than 20/200 but is

accompanied by a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field

subtends an angle no greater than twenty degrees (20°).

(e) Every resident man or woman over the age of sixty-five (65) years is entitled, subject

to the provisions of this title and the regulations issued pursuant to this title, to receive a special

permanent license to hunt or fish or both in this state for which there is no fee.

(f) Any man or woman who is one hundred percent (100%) permanently disabled may

apply to receive a license to fish in this state, and upon presentation of a proof of his or her disability

as prescribed by the department of environmental management, receive, without the payment of

any license fee, a continuing special form of license authorizing the man or woman to fish in this

state for so long as he or she so desires; provided, however, that the man or woman, having once

made application for this license, shall not again be required to appear before the licensing authority

to present his or her papers.

(g) The director may, by regulation, designate no more than two (2) days in each year,

which may or may not be consecutive, during which residents and nonresidents may, without

having a license and without payment of any fee, exercise the privileges of a holder of a freshwater

fishing license. These persons are subject to all other limitations, restrictions, conditions, laws,

rules, and regulations applicable to the holder of a freshwater fishing license.

(h) For the purpose of this section, “man or woman who is one hundred percent (100%)

permanently disabled” means an individual who has a physical or mental impairment and is

receiving:

(1) Social Security Disability Insurance Benefits (SSDI);

(2) Supplemental Security Income benefits (SSI).

All licenses that are issued to persons who qualify pursuant to this subsection shall be

issued without the requirement of the payment of a fee and shall expire annually on February 28 of

each year. Persons seeking the issuance or reissuance of licenses shall be required to present

documentation establishing that the applicant is qualified, or remains qualified, pursuant to this

subsection.

(i) Every member of a federally recognized Indian tribe that is located in Rhode Island is

entitled, subject to the provisions of this title and regulations issued pursuant to this title, to receive

a freshwater fishing license for which there is no fee.

LC004931 - Page 2 of 5

SECTION 2. Section 20-2.1-8 of the General Laws in Chapter 20-2.1 entitled "Commercial

Fishing Licenses" is hereby amended to read as follows:

20-2.1-8. Dealers’ licenses and fees.

(a) No person, partnership, firm, association, or corporation shall barter or trade in marine

species taken by persons licensed under this chapter unless a license so to do has been obtained

from the director of environmental management.

(b) Any licensee operating under the provisions of this section shall purchase marine

species from licensed persons only and shall purchase or possess only those lobsters marine species

legally taken or possessed.

(c) The director shall issue and enforce rules and regulations and orders governing bartering

and trading in marine species by licensed persons of marine species and licensed dealers, and other

persons, partnerships, firms, associations, or corporations.

(d) License types and fees.

(1) Multipurpose dealer’s license This license shall allow the dealer to purchase or sell

all marine products in the state of Rhode Island. The license shall be valid for the calendar year in

which it is issued. The fee shall be four hundred and fifty dollars ($450).

(2) Finfish dealer’s license. This license shall allow the dealer to purchase or sell all finfish

products in the state of Rhode Island. The license shall be valid for the calendar year in which it is

issued. The fee shall be three hundred dollars ($300).

(3) Shellfish dealer’s license. This license shall allow the dealer to purchase or sell all

shellfish products in the state of Rhode Island. The license shall be valid for the calendar year in

which it is issued. The fee shall be three hundred dollars ($300).

(4) Crustacean dealer license. This license shall allow the dealer to purchase all

crustacean products in the state of Rhode Island. The license shall be valid for the calendar year in

which it is issued. The fee shall be three hundred dollars ($300).

(e) Seafood dealers license — Suspension or revocation. The director may suspend,

revoke, or deny the license of a seafood dealer or fisher of marine species for the violation of any

provision of this title or the rules, regulations, or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this title.

(f) Any person aggrieved by the decisions of the director may appeal the decision pursuant
to the provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act, chapter 35 of title 42.

(g) The director is authorized to enter and inspect the business premises, appurtenant

structures, vehicles, or vessels of any seafood dealer and to inspect the records maintained by a

seafood dealer for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this section and

any rules, regulations, or orders issued under this section, and no person shall interfere with,

LC004931 - Page 3 of 5

obstruct the entrance, or inspection of the director or the director’s agents of those business

premises, appurtenant structures, vehicles, or vessels.

(h) Any violation of the provisions of this section or any rule, regulation, or order adopted
under this section shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in § 20-1-16.
SECTION 3. Section 20-2.2-6 of the General Laws in Chapter 20-2.2 entitled
"Recreational Saltwater Fishing License" is hereby amended to read as follows:

20-2.2-6. Fees — Terms and conditions — Information required.

(a)(1) Resident, seven dollars ($7.00);

(2) No fee shall be charged for residents who are over the age of sixty-five (65), or are

members of a federally recognized Indian tribe located in Rhode Island or in active military service;

(3) Nonresident, ten dollars ($10.00);

(4) Licenses issued pursuant to this subsection shall expire on December 31st of each year.

(b)(1) Resident or nonresident seven-day (7), five dollars ($5.00);

(2) This license shall entitle the holder to fish recreationally for seven (7) consecutive days,

including the day of issuance.
(c) All license applications shall be required to provide their name, address, phone number,
and date of birth.

(d) Any lost or destroyed license shall be replaceable, during the calendar year in which it

was issued, or in the case of a seven-day (7) license, during the seven-day (7) period when it is

valid, at no cost to the license holder.

(e) The director is authorized to determine a portion of the license fee, not to exceed any

of the amounts set forth above in this section, that may be retained by the state-approved vendor

and authorized licensing agents, as set forth in § 20-2.2-7, as commission for services rendered.

SECTION 4. Sections 1 and 3 of this act shall take effect on March 1, 2027. Section 2 of
this act shall take effect upon passage.
========
========

LC004931 - Page 4 of 5

EXPLANATION
BY THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL
OF
AN ACT
RELATING TO FISH AND WILDLIFE -- LICENSING

***

This act would allow any member of a federally recognized Indian tribe located in Rhode

Island to receive recreational freshwater and saltwater fishing licenses free of charge. It would also

make a technical correction to a separate section of law dealing with commercial fishing dealers'

licenses.

Sections 1 and 3 of this act would take effect on March 1, 2027. Section 2 of this act would
take effect upon passage.
========
========

LC004931 - Page 5 of 5
