SB341

L5D19WW-1

By Senator Carnley

RFD: Transportation and Energy

First Read: 05-Mar-26

Page 0

L5D19WW-1 03/05/2026 CMH (L)JWB 2026-1215

SYNOPSIS:

This bill would establish the Alabama Work Zone

Safety Act as a pilot program subject to automatic

sunset to authorize the Alabama Department of

Transportation and Alabama Toll Road, Bridge, and

Tunnel Authority to procure, install, and operate an

automated photographic speed enforcement system in one

segment of interstate highway declared to be a work

zone. The Department of Transportation and Alabama

State Law Enforcement Agency would be required to

prepare a report that studies whether the pilot program

is effective in increasing the safety of work zones.
This bill would authorize the Alabama State Law

Enforcement Agency to procure and use a photographic

speed enforcement device in a work zone on the public

highways of the state.

This bill would establish a process for the

issuance and enforcement of civil traffic citations to

the owners of motor vehicles recorded exceeding 10

miles per hour over the posted speed limit in a work

zone.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED
Page 1

AN ACT

Relating to public safety; to establish the Alabama

Work Zone Safety Act as a pilot program to authorize the

procurement, installation, and operation of a photographic

speed enforcement system in a segment of interstate highway

declared to be a work zone; to require reports to the

Legislature studying the effectiveness of the pilot program;

to establish a process for the issuance of civil traffic

citations for violations and the enforcement and appeal of

such citations; and to establish affirmative defenses to a

violation.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as
the Alabama Work Zone Safety Act.
Section 2. The Legislature finds and declares the
following:
(1) Highway construction and maintenance creates a high

risk environment for highway workers who must work alongside

motor vehicles traveling at high rates of speed.

(2) Numerous highway workers have been struck and

killed in work zones due to motor vehicles traveling at high

rates of speed through the work zones.

(3) Speed enforcement management within a work zone is

one of the most effective measures to improve safety in the

work zone.

(4) Speed enforcement is highly labor intensive and can
even be hazardous to law enforcement officers given the
Page 2

physical constraints of many work zones.
(5) Photographic speed enforcement systems allow law

enforcement to successfully manage speed enforcement in a work

zone in a safe and cost-effective manner.

(6) The adoption and implementation of a photographic

speed enforcement system for work zones is necessary to reduce

severe crashes, reduce speeding, and improve safe traffic flow

in work zones in a state where the patrol resources alone are

not capable of consistent enforcement of traffic laws at a

level necessary to protect human life.

(7) The severe lack of safety of highway workers in

work zones is an emergency that necessitates the immediate

adoption of a photographic speed enforcement system consistent

with the terms of this act.

Section 3. (a) This act is enacted as a pilot program

and shall continue through the completion of all work done in

the work zone designated by the Department of Transportation,

unless continued by act of the Legislature.

(b) The Department of Transportation and Alabama State

Law Enforcement Agency shall collaborate to implement the

pilot program for one work zone conducted on the interstate

and shall finalize a plan for the implementation of the pilot

program by October 1, 2026. The plan shall contemplate a

gradual rollout of the program and the promotion of driver

awareness of the pending use of the program in work zones. The

plan shall ensure that the full scale implementation and

enforcement of the program shall not occur sooner than

November 16, 2026, to ensure that the implementation of the
Page 3

program is phased in. To satisfy this deadline, the department

and ALEA may make necessary emergency procurements pursuant to

Sections 41-16-53 and 39-2-2, Code of Alabama 1975, and may

adopt emergency rules pursuant to Section 41-22-5, Code of

Alabama 1975, to govern the use of devices in work zones;

ensure adequate notice for drivers, signage rules, clear

protocol for installation and placement of enforcement tools;

provide for the use of speed detection to aid traffic law

enforcement; and maintain statistical data to measure the

effectiveness of tools on driver behavior.

(c) Not later than March 1, 2027, the Department of

Transportation and Alabama State Law Enforcement Agency shall

prepare an interim report to the Legislature summarizing the

implementation of this pilot program and shall provide data

measuring the effectiveness of the pilot program on creating

safer work zones.

Section 4. As used in this act, the following terms
have the following meanings:

(1) ALEA. The Alabama State Law Enforcement Agency.

(2) AUTHORITY. The Alabama Toll Road, Bridge, and

Tunnel Authority.
(3) AUTOMATED PHOTOGRAPHIC SPEED ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM. A

photographic speed enforcement system that is capable of

automatically recording digital images and speed of motor

vehicles.

(4) CIVIL TRAFFIC CITATION. A non-criminal citation

created pursuant to this act, the penalty for which is a civil

fine, and the enforceability of which is accomplished through
Page 4

civil action.

(5) DEPARTMENT. The Alabama Department of
Transportation.

(6) OWNER. The owner of a motor vehicle as shown on the

motor vehicle registration records of the Alabama Department

of Revenue or the analogous department or agency of another

state or country, except as follows:

a. The term does not include a motor vehicle rental or

leasing company when a motor vehicle registered by the company

is rented or leased to another person under a rental or lease

agreement with the company, in which event "owner" means the

person to whom the vehicle is rented or leased.

b. The term does not include any motor vehicle

displaying a plate that indicates the motor vehicle is being

operated by an individual other than the owner of the motor

vehicle, including a dealer license plate, a fleet plate, a

U.S. military plate, utility plate, government plate, federal

plate, or commercial motor vehicle plate, in which event

"owner" means the person to whom the vehicle is assigned for

use.

(7) SPEEDING VIOLATION. Any violation of a motor

vehicle at a speed that exceeds 10 miles per hour over the

posted speed limit.

(8) WORK ZONE. A segment of a state, U.S., or

interstate highway designated by the department or the

authority where construction, maintenance, inspection,

surveying, or utility work is actively occurring and where

workers are present, and where official work zone signage is
Page 5

posted.
Section 5. (a) The department and authority may install

automated photographic speed enforcement systems to monitor

motor vehicle activity in a work zone.

(b) The automated photographic speed enforcement system

shall be: (i) a photographic, radar, lidar, laser, or other

device; (ii) designed to automatically detect the speed of

moving motor vehicles; (iii) designed to automatically record

digital imaging of a motor vehicle and an image of the rear

license plate of a motor vehicle engaged in a speeding

violation; and (iv) designed to automatically record the speed

of a motor vehicle engaged in a speeding violation.

(c) The department, authority, or a third party

approved by the department or authority may place automated

photographic speed enforcement systems at work zones as

necessary to assure the safety of the work zone. The

department may adopt rules, including emergency rules, to

implement this section and to provide for the approval of

third parties under this section.

Section 6. (a) ALEA may use a manually operated

photographic speed enforcement system to monitor motor vehicle

activity in a work zone as necessary to assure the safety of

the work zone. The system shall be operated by a law

enforcement officer in a manner that combines a manually

operated camera system that works in conjunction with an

electronically operated speed detection system to record

digital imaging of a motor vehicle that is speeding.

(b) The Secretary of ALEA may adopt rules, including
Page 6

emergency rules, to implement this section and to establish

uniform procedures for law enforcement officers operating

under this act.

Section 7. A photographic speed enforcement system

authorized under this act may be used to detect and record

motor vehicle speeding violations in an active work zone. For

purposes of this act, "active work zone" means a work zone

that satisfies all of the following conditions:

(1) The area is designated by the department or
authority as a work zone.

(2) Employees or contractors of the department or

authority or construction, maintenance, inspection, surveying,

utility, or other workers are present.

(3) Work zone traffic control devices, traffic

controls, or warning signs are present to notify motorists and

pedestrians of construction, maintenance, inspection,

surveying, utility, or other workers in the area.

(4) Not less than two warning signs are placed at least

feet in advance of the entrance warning motorists that a

photographic speed enforcement system is being operated in the

area and that a violation will result in a fine.

Section 8. (a) When a motor vehicle is recorded

operating in an active work zone at a speed that exceeds 10

miles per hour over the posted speed limit, ALEA may issue a

civil traffic citation to the registered owner of a motor

vehicle.

(b) When a speeding violation is recorded, ALEA shall
send to the owner of the motor vehicle, via mail, a notice of
Page 7

the civil traffic citation which was recorded by the automated

photographic speed enforcement system while committing a

speeding violation. The notice shall be sent not later than 30

days after the date the speeding violation is recorded, as

follows:

(1) If the vehicle is registered in this state, to the

registered owner's address as shown on the registration

records of the Department of Revenue.

(2) If the vehicle is registered in another state or

country, to the registered owner's address as shown on the

motor vehicle registration records of the other state or

country.

(c) The notice shall contain all of the following:

(1) A description of the violation alleged, including

the speed at which the motor vehicle is alleged to have been

operated, and the maximum speed applicable at the location.

(2) The date, time, and location of the speeding
violation.
(3) A copy of recorded images of the vehicle involved
in the speeding violation.
(4) The amount of the civil penalty to be imposed for
the speeding violation.
(5) The date by which the civil penalty must be paid.

For purposes of this subdivision, the Alabama State Law

Enforcement Agency shall require the civil penalty to be paid

by a date certain, not less than 60 days following issuance of

the notice of violation.

(6) A statement that the person named in the notice of
Page 8

violation may pay the civil penalty in lieu of appearing at an

administrative adjudication hearing.

(7) A statement that the person has the right to

contest the imposition of the civil penalty in an

administrative adjudication and information about the manner

and time in which the person may contest the imposition of the

civil penalty.

(8) A statement that failure to pay the civil penalty
or to contest liability is an admission of liability.
(9) A statement that a recorded image is evidence in a
proceeding for the imposition of a civil penalty.
(10) Any other information necessary for issuing the
notice.

(11) A statement that if the registered owner is a

rental car company, the company has the right to provide

information to ALEA on which individual was rented the vehicle

at the time of violation. The statement shall include

information about how to provide the information of the

individual.

(d) In lieu of issuing a notice of violation, ALEA may

mail a warning notice to the registered owner. ALEA shall

exercise discretion in which recorded speeding violations are

referred to the local district attorney for prosecuting the

civil violation.

(e) In the event the evidence produced by a

photographic speed enforcement system does not produce an

image of the license plate with sufficient clarity for a speed

enforcement system operator to determine the identity of the
Page 9

owner, and if the identity cannot otherwise be reliably

established, then no notice of speeding violation may be

issued pursuant to this act.

Section 9. Failure to pay a civil penalty or to contest

liability in a timely manner is an admission of liability in

the full amount of the civil fine assessed in the notice of

violation.

Section 10. (a) A speeding violation under this act

shall be enforced by the local district attorney in the same

manner as non-felony traffic infractions are prosecuted,

except the burden of proof for the prosecution of the speeding

violation shall be the preponderance of the evidence standard.

(b)(1) Speeding violations under this act shall be

punished by a civil fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250),

which shall be collected as other civil judgments are

collected. Court costs shall not be assessed except as

provided in subsection (c).

(2) In no event shall a speeding violation be
punishable by a criminal fine or imprisonment.
(3) The Secretary of ALEA shall not assess any points

against a driver license or suspend or revoke a driver license

for a speeding violation.

(c) A person who is found liable for the speeding

violation after an adjudicative hearing or who requests an

adjudicative hearing and thereafter fails to appear at the

time and place of the hearing is liable for court costs and

fees set in addition to the amount of the civil penalty

assessed for the speeding violation. A person who is found
Page 10

liable for a speeding violation after an adjudicative hearing

shall pay the civil penalty and costs within 60 days of the

hearing.

(d) Whenever a person is ordered to pay a civil penalty

under this act, the amount of the civil penalty as set by this

act may not be increased, decreased, or remitted by the court,

and the liability may be satisfied only by payment in full.

(e) An order issued under this section shall have the

same weight and effect as any other civil judgment.
Section 11. (a) Any agency using a photographic speed

enforcement system shall ensure the system is calibrated on an

annual basis by an independent calibration laboratory.

(b) The independent calibration laboratory performing

the calibration shall issue a certificate of calibration for

the automated photographic speed enforcement system as proof

of both of the following:

(1) The annual calibration check was performed.

(2) The automated photographic speed enforcement system

is accurately calibrated.
Section 12. (a) For purposes of this act, a "speed

enforcement system operator" means any of the following

individuals who are trained and certified to operate a

photographic speed enforcement system:

(1) An employee of ALEA or county or municipal law
enforcement agency.

(2) An employee of the department or authority.

(3) A third party approved by the department or

authority to operate or install a photographic speed
Page 11

enforcement system.
(b) An individual may be trained and certified to

operate a photographic speed enforcement system as described

in subsection (a) by completing training by the manufacturer

or vendor of the system in the following:

(1) Certification of automated speed enforcement
systems and accuracy testing.

(2) Image quality requirements.

(3) Chain of custody procedures.

(4) Technician training and discretion for determining

which violations to process.

(5) Vendor performance and auditing requirements.

(6) Requirements for issuance, service, and processing

of notices of violation.
(7) Any other requirement adopted by rule of the
department.
(c) The manufacturer or vendor of a photographic speed

enforcement system shall issue a certificate of training to an

individual who successfully completes the training required

under subsection (b).

Section 13. (a) The reliability of a photographic speed

enforcement system used to produce the recorded image of the

speeding violation may be attested to by affidavit of a speed

enforcement system operator.

(b) An affidavit of a speed enforcement system operator

that alleges a violation based on an inspection of the

pertinent recorded image shall be admissible in a proceeding

under this act as evidence of the facts contained in the
Page 12

affidavit.
(c) The notice of violation; the recorded and

reproduced images of the speeding violation, regardless of the

media on which they are recorded, accompanied by a

certification of authenticity of a speed enforcement system

operator; and evidence of ownership of a vehicle as shown by

copies or summaries of official records, shall be admissible

into evidence without foundation unless the court finds there

is an indication of untrustworthiness, in which case the

prosecution shall be given a reasonable opportunity to lay an

evidentiary foundation.

(d) The issue of whether an image of a license plate is

sufficiently clear to identify the vehicle is admissible as to

the weight of the evidence.

(e) All other matters of evidence and procedure not

specifically addressed in this act shall be subject to the

rules of evidence and the rules of procedure as they apply in

the prosecution of traffic infractions.

Section 14. (a) The owner of a motor vehicle may raise

any of the following as an affirmative defense to the

imposition of liability under this act:

(1) The operator of the motor vehicle was acting in

compliance with the lawful order or direction of a law

enforcement officer.

(2) The motor vehicle was being operated as an
authorized emergency vehicle.
(3) The motor vehicle was stolen or being operated by a
person other than the owner of the vehicle without the
Page 13

effective consent of the owner.
(4) The license plate depicted in the recorded image of

the speeding violation was a stolen license plate and being

displayed on a motor vehicle other than the motor vehicle for

which the license plate had been issued.

(5) The person who received the notice of civil traffic

citation was not the owner of the motor vehicle at the time of

the speeding violation.

(6) The person who received the notice of civil traffic

citation was not the operator of the motor vehicle at the time

of the speeding violation.

(7) The operator of the vehicle was arrested or was

issued a citation and notice to appear by a law enforcement

officer for a traffic or criminal violation of any other

portion of Title 32, Code of Alabama 1975, or any other

municipal ordinance that embraces and incorporates the

statutes contained in that title, and the conduct resulting in

the citation occurred simultaneously with and under the same

set of circumstances recorded by the automated photographic

speed enforcement system.

(b) The burden of raising and establishing the
affirmative defense shall be on the owner of the vehicle.
Section 15. (a) A person who is found liable after an

adjudicative hearing may appeal that finding of civil

liability to the circuit court by filing a notice of appeal

with the clerk of the court.

(b) The notice of appeal must be filed not later than
days after the date on which the court entered the finding
Page 14

of civil liability.
(c) The filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the

enforcement of the civil penalty. An appeal shall be

determined by the circuit court by trial de novo.

(d) The circuit court hearing an appeal shall use the

procedures that apply to criminal convictions, subject to the

following qualifications:

(1) The proceedings shall retain their civil nature on

appeal with the circuit court applying the preponderance of

the evidence standard.

(2) If the person is adjudicated by the circuit court

to be responsible for payment of the civil penalty, circuit

court costs shall be owed by the person adjudicated

responsible, with 100 percent of those court costs retained by

the circuit court. Court costs in the circuit court shall be

calculated as are court costs for criminal appeals, and in the

event the circuit court finds the person appealing to not be

responsible, no court costs shall be owed.

(3) The circuit court may assign case numbers as for

criminal appeals and place the appeals on criminal dockets in

the same manner as criminal appeals from municipal court.

(4) The circuit court shall sit as trier of both fact
and law in the civil proceedings in the circuit court.
(5) A defendant shall be entitled to representation by

an attorney in the same manner as in a criminal proceeding.

Section 16. The department or authority, or its

contractor, shall place traffic control devices in conformity

with a nationally recognized traffic engineering handbook,
Page 15

including, but not limited to, the Manual of Uniform Traffic

Control Devices, and the traffic control plans of the

department. There is a presumption that the department's

actions are in compliance with this section unless the

contrary is shown by a preponderance of the evidence.

Section 17. The department or authority may perform the

duties assigned to the department or authority under this act

either directly or through a contracted manufacturer or vendor

selected pursuant to state the procurement process and

operating in coordination with the department or authority.

Any procurements made under this act shall not be considered

to be a contract for professional services. The department or

authority shall follow the department or authority's

procurement procedures. The department or authority shall have

sole discretion on selecting a vendor or vendors.

Section 18. ALEA may procure the equipment and

technology necessary to operate a photographic speed

enforcement system pursuant to the state procurement law. The

procurement shall not be considered a contract for

professional services. The system may be operated using

manual, handheld, or unmanned devices capable of being mounted

to a vehicle. ALEA shall have sole discretion on selecting a

vendor or vendors.

Section 19. All civil penalties collected under this
act shall be distributed as follows:
(1) Fifty percent to the Public Safety Fund of ALEA and
shall be used exclusively for law enforcement purposes.
(2) Fifty Percent to the Public Road and Bridge Fund of
Page 16

the department and shall be used exclusively in the

construction, repair, maintenance, and operation of public

roads and bridges in this state, including public roads in

state parks and any toll road or toll bridge constructed by

the department or maintained and operated by department or

under its supervision.

Section 20. This act shall become effective
immediately.

Page 17
