Senate Bill 384
By: Senators Hatchett of the 50th, Goodman of the 8th, Burns of the 23rd, Echols of the 49th,
Williams of the 25th and others
AS PASSED
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT
To amend Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Title 12 and Title 40 of the Official Code of Georgia
Annotated, relating to motor vehicle emission inspection and maintenance and motor
vehicles and traffic, respectively, so as to provide for an optional five-year motor vehicle
registration and revalidation for certain motor vehicles; to provide for the submission of
certificates of emission inspection for such five-year motor vehicle registrations; to authorize
electronic notice in certain instances; to prohibit credits or refunds of registration fees; to
provide for fees for five-year registration decals for prestige and specialty license plates; to
provide for the submission of certificates of emission inspections to the Department of
Revenue; to authorize the adoption of rules and regulations; to revise and provide for
definitions; to provide for conforming changes; to provide for related matters; to provide for
an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Title 12 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to
motor vehicle emission inspection and maintenance, is amended in Code Section 12-9-45,
relating to certificate of emission inspection, by revising subsection (b) as follows:

"(b) A certificate of emission inspection shall be valid for one inspection term. The owner

of each responsible motor vehicle subject to subsection (a) of this Code section is required

to obtain a new certificate of emission inspection on or before the date the current

certificate of emission inspection expires or prior to the vehicle registration date conclusion

of the registration period, as such term is defined in Code Section 40-2-21, in the year

following the expiration of the certificate, as determined by the board."

SECTION 2.

Said article is further amended in Code Section 12-9-51, relating to emission inspection
required for motor vehicle registration, operation without registration, and improper reuse,
by revising subsection (a) as follows:

"(a) Beginning July 1, 1992, it shall be unlawful for any county to and no county shall

register any responsible motor vehicle subject to any requirement under Code Section

12-9-45 pursuant to or subject to the requirements of Chapter 2 of Title 40 without proof

of a valid certificate of emission inspection issued pursuant to Code Section 12-9-48

indicating that such responsible motor vehicle satisfied all applicable requirements of Code

Section Sections 12-9-45 and Code Section 12-9-48. In applying for a motor vehicle

registration for a responsible motor vehicle subject to any requirement under Code Section

12-9-45, the application shall be accompanied by proof of the issuance of a certificate of

emission inspection issued pursuant to Code Section 12-9-48. A valid certificate of

emission inspection shall be submitted during each inspection term of a five-year motor

vehicle registration. Any county which registers any responsible motor vehicle without

proof of a certificate of emission inspection or fails to suspend a five-year registration of

a responsible motor vehicle without proof of a certificate of emission inspection during an

inspection term shall be in violation of this article."

SECTION 3.

Said article is further amended in Code Section 12-9-55, relating to prohibited acts,
registration of vehicle by county without proof of inspection, penalty, and withholding of
funding, by revising subsection (i) as follows:

"(i) If it is determined that any county has registered responsible motor vehicles or failed

to suspend a five-year registration of responsible motor vehicles without receiving proof

from the owners that the responsible motor vehicles satisfy all applicable requirements of

Code Sections 12-9-45 and 12-9-48, the director shall notify the commissioner of

transportation that such an unlawful act has occurred. Upon such notification, the State

Transportation Board may at its discretion withhold Department of Transportation funding

assistance from any such county."

SECTION 4.

Title 40 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to motor vehicles and traffic, is
amended in Code Section 40-1-9, relating to electronic notifications and communications by
Department of Revenue, by adding a new subsection to read as follows:

"(b.1)(1) Notice required by the department upon an owner for failure to comply with

emission inspection certification requirements pursuant to Code Section 40-2-137 shall

be satisfied by electronic means when:

(A) The owner has elected to register his or her vehicle for a term of five years; and

(B) The department provides notifications and communications electronically to the

owner 30 days, 20 days, and ten days prior to the date of any suspension.

(2) The department shall provide for notice of the use of electronic notifications and

communications authorized by this subsection at the time of registration and in a

statement which reads:

'BY ELECTING A FIVE-YEAR VEHICLE REGISTRATION, YOU AGREE TO

RECEIVE

ELECTRONIC

NOTIFICATIONS

AND

COMMUNICATIONS

RELATING TO FAILURE TO SUBMIT REQUIRED EMISSIONS INSPECTION

CERTIFICATION AND ANY POSSIBLE MOTOR VEHICLE SUSPENSION THAT

MAY RESULT FROM SUCH FAILURE.'"

SECTION 5.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-1, relating to definitions relative to
registration and licensing of motor vehicles, by adding a new paragraph to read as follows:

"(3.3) 'Eligible motor vehicle' means a motor vehicle for which required state and local

ad valorem taxes have been paid in accordance with the alternative ad valorem tax set

forth Code Section 48-5C-1. Such term shall not include a commercial motor vehicle or

an alternative fueled vehicle, as such term is defined in paragraph (7) of subsection (l) of

Code Section 40-2-86.1."

SECTION 6.

Said title is further amended by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"40-2-10.1.

In no case shall an owner be entitled to a credit or refund for any payment of fees for a

registration issued under this chapter upon the cancellation, termination, transfer,

suspension, or revocation of such registration or upon the removal of a license plate for any

other reason from a vehicle registered in this state."

SECTION 7.

Said title is further amended by revising Code Section 40-2-20, relating to registration and
license requirements, certificate of registration and temporary operating permit, and two-year
registration option for new motor vehicles, as follows:

"40-2-20.

(a)(1)(A) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (d) of otherwise provided in this

Code section and subsection (a) of Code Section 40-2-47, every owner of a motor

vehicle, including a tractor or motorcycle, and every owner of a trailer shall, during the

owner's registration period in each year, register such vehicle as provided in this chapter

and obtain a license plate or revalidation decal to operate it for the 12 month period

until such person's next registration period.

(B)(i) The purchaser or other transferee owner of every new or used motor vehicle,

including tractors and motorcycles, or trailer shall register such vehicle as provided

in Code Section 40-2-8 and obtain or transfer as provided in this chapter a license to

operate it for the period remaining until such person's next registration period which

immediately follows such initial registration period, without regard to whether such

next registration period occurs in the same calendar year as the initial registration

period or how soon such next registration period follows the initial registration period;

provided, however, that this registration and licensing requirement does not apply to

a dealer which acquires a new or used motor vehicle and holds it for resale. The

commissioner may provide by rule or regulation for one 30 day extension of such

initial registration period which may be granted by the county tag agent if the

transferor has not provided such purchaser or other transferee owner with a title to the

motor vehicle more than five business days prior to the expiration of such initial

registration period. The county tag agent shall grant an extension of the initial

registration period when the transferor, purchaser, or transferee can demonstrate by

affidavit in a form provided by the commissioner that title has not been provided to

the purchaser or transferee due to the failure of a security interest or lienholder to

timely release a security interest or lien in accordance with Code Section 40-3-56.

(ii) No person, company, or corporation, including, but not limited to, used motor

vehicle dealers and auto auctions, shall sell or transfer a motor vehicle without

providing to the purchaser or transferee of such motor vehicle the last certificate of

registration on such vehicle at the time of such sale or transfer; provided, however,

that, in the case of a salvage motor vehicle or a motor vehicle which is stolen but

subsequently recovered by the insurance company after payment of a total loss claim,

the salvage dealer or insurer, respectively, shall not be required to provide the

certificate of registration for such vehicle; and provided, further, that in the case of a

repossessed motor vehicle or a court ordered sale or other involuntary transfer, the

lienholder or the transferor shall not be required to provide the certificate of

registration for such vehicle but shall, prior to the sale of such vehicle, surrender the

license plate of such vehicle to the commissioner or the county tag agent by personal

delivery or by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery for cancellation.

(C) Upon application for renewal of a vehicle registration, the county tag agent may

issue a temporary operating permit for any vehicle that fails to comply with applicable

federal emission standards, provided that the owner of such vehicle has provided

verification of the existence of minimum motor vehicle liability insurance coverage and

paid all applicable taxes, penalties, insurance lapse fees, and fees other than the

registration fee. Such temporary operating permit shall be valid for 30 days and shall

not be renewable.

(2) An application for the registration of a motor vehicle may not be submitted separately

from the application for a certificate of title for such motor vehicle, unless a certificate

of title has been issued in the owner's name, such title has been applied for in the owner's

name, or the motor vehicle is not required to be titled. An application for a certificate of

title for a motor vehicle may be submitted separately from the application for the

registration of such motor vehicle.

(b) Subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply:

(1) To any motor vehicle or trailer owned by the state or any municipality or other

political subdivision of this state except to the extent provided by Code Section 40-2-37;

(2) To any tractor or three-wheeled motorcycle used only for agricultural purposes;

(2.1)(3) To any vehicle or equipment used for transporting cargo or containers between

and within wharves, storage areas, or terminals within the facilities of any port under the

jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority when such vehicle or equipment is being

operated upon any public road not part of The Dwight D. Eisenhower System of

Interstate and Defense Highways by the owner thereof or his or her agent within a radius

of ten miles of the port facility of origin and accompanied by an escort vehicle equipped

with one or more operating amber flashing lights that are visible from a distance of 500

feet;

(3)(4) To any trailer which has no springs and which is being employed in hauling

unprocessed farm products to their first market destination;

(4)(5) To any trailer which has no springs, which is pulled from a tongue, and which is

used primarily to transport fertilizer to a farm;

(5)(6) To any electric powered personal transportation vehicle;

(6)(7) To any moped; or

(7)(8) To any golf car.

(c) Any person who fails to register a new or used motor vehicle as required in subsection

(a) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,

shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100.00.

(d) Upon the payment of the requisite fee, the purchaser of a new motor vehicle which is

a passenger car, for which such purchaser has paid state and local title ad valorem taxes,

may choose to register such passenger car for an initial period of two years instead of the

annual registration provided for in this Code section, provided that the motor vehicle owner

does not elect a prestige or special license plate. Thereafter, such passenger car shall be

subject to the annual registration requirements of this Code section.

(c) On and after July 1, 2027, an owner of an eligible motor vehicle who has complied

with all other requirements of this chapter shall be authorized to register or renew a

registration for such eligible vehicle annually or for a period of five years. In addition to

the applicable license fee set forth in Code Section 40-2-151, an owner of an eligible motor

vehicle with a prestige or special license plate shall pay any applicable registration renewal

fees for such license plate. Any owner of an eligible motor vehicle who elects a five-year

registration and revalidation decal shall not be relieved of any applicable emission

inspection certification requirements under Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Title 12.

(d) Upon application for renewal of a motor vehicle registration, the county tag agent shall

be authorized to issue a temporary operating permit for any vehicle that fails to comply

with emission inspection certification requirements under Article 2 of Chapter 9 of

Title 12, provided that the owner of such vehicle has provided verification of the existence

of minimum motor vehicle liability insurance coverage and paid all applicable taxes,

penalties, insurance lapse fees, and fees other than the registration fee. Such temporary

operating permit shall be valid for 30 days and shall not be renewable.

(e) The commissioner shall be authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as may

be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Code section and the issuance of five-year

registrations and revalidation decals."

SECTION 8.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-21, relating to registration periods, by
adding a new paragraph to subsection (a) and revising subsection (b) as follows:

"(.01) 'Eligible motor vehicle registration term' means every fifth registration period for

an owner of an eligible motor vehicle who elects a five-year revalidation decal option."

"(b) The owner of every vehicle registered in the previous calendar year shall register

renew such registration and obtain a license to operate such vehicle with a revalidation

decal not later than the last day of the owner's registration period for an annual motor

vehicle registration or the last day of an eligible motor vehicle registration term for a

five-year motor vehicle registration."

SECTION 9.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-34, relating to reports and remittances by
tag agents, by adding a new subsection to read as follows:

"(g) The commissioner shall be authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as may

be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Code section and the distribution of funds

relating to the issuance and renewal of annual and five-year motor vehicle registrations and

the disbursement of funds relating to any special license plates issued by the department."

SECTION 10.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-42, relating to transfer of license plates
and revalidation decals, by revising subsection (b) as follows:

"(b) The commissioner shall provide by rules and regulations appropriate procedures

whereby, upon the payment of a fee of $5.00, and, upon preparation and filing of an

appropriate application therefor, currently valid annual and five-year license plates and

revalidation decals shall be transferred from one vehicle to another vehicle of the same

class of which ownership is acquired following that person's or those persons' ceasing to

own or operate on the public roads the vehicle for which such plate was originally issued

and during the initial registration period for the acquired vehicle. If such acquired vehicle

is of a different class than the vehicle no longer owned or operated by such person, he or

she shall submit the license plate currently issued to him or her for cancellation and, upon

payment of any additional fee for registering such acquired vehicle, the commissioner shall

issue a new license plate to such person for use on such acquired vehicle. License plates

and revalidation decals may be transferred in accordance with the provisions of this

subsection at any time after issuance or renewal thereof and until the expiration of the

period for which issued."

SECTION 11.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-60, relating to prestige license plates, by
revising subsection (a) as follows:

"(a) Motor vehicle owners who are residents of Georgia, upon complying with the motor

vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles and, except as provided

in subsection (c) of this Code section, upon the payment of a fee of $35.00 in addition to

the regular motor vehicle registration fee, shall be issued special personalized prestige

license plates by the commissioner. Special personalized license plates issued pursuant to

this Code section shall be subject to an additional annual registration fee of $35.00 as a

condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of

$175.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate.

which fee The fee required by this Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent

at the time of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as

provided in Code Section 40-2-34."

SECTION 12.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-60.1, relating to standardized
administrative process for special license plates, designs, fees, and application process, by
revising paragraph (5) of subsection (c) as follows:

"(5) 'Special license plate renewal fee' means a $35.00 fee the fee required to be paid at

the time a special license plate is renewed and a revalidation decal is issued. For an

annual revalidation decal, such fee shall be $35.00 and for a five-year revalidation decal,

such fee shall be $175.00."

SECTION 13.

Said title is further amended by revising Code Section 40-2-61, relating to license plates for
U.S. Senators and Congressmen, state constitutional officers, Speaker of the House of

Representatives, Justices of Supreme Court, Judges of Court of Appeals, and Public Service
Commission members, as follows:

"40-2-61.

(a) As used in this Code section, the term 'state constitutional officer' means the Governor,

Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, State School Superintendent,

Commissioner of Insurance, Commissioner of Agriculture, or Commissioner of Labor.

(b) The commissioner shall design and issue distinctive license plates to each United

States Senator and Congressman elected from the State of Georgia, each state constitutional

officer, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, each Justice of the Supreme Court

and each Judge of the Court of Appeals, and each member of the Public Service

Commission to be placed on such official's personal motor vehicle. Each such distinctive

license plate shall indicate the individual's elected office and no county name decal need

be affixed to such plate as required pursuant to Code Section 40-2-9. The special license

plate authorized by this Code section shall be issued to such elected official upon

application and payment of a manufacturing fee of $25.00 and upon compliance with the

state laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles and shall be transferred

as provided in Code Section 40-2-80. Distinctive license plates issued pursuant to this

Code section shall be renewed annually, and revalidation decals shall be issued upon

compliance with the laws relating to registration and licensing and upon payment of subject

to an additional annual registration fee of $35.00 which shall as a condition of obtaining

an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of $175.00 as a condition of

obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee required by this

Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time for collection of other

registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. For

purposes of this Code section, the term 'state constitutional officer' means the Governor,

Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, State School Superintendent,

Commissioner of Insurance, Commissioner of Agriculture, or Commissioner of Labor."

SECTION 14.

Said title is further amended by revising Code Section 40-2-62, relating to license plates for
current and former members of the General Assembly, as follows:

"40-2-62.

The commissioner shall mail special and distinctive license plates printed for members of

the General Assembly and former members of the General Assembly who are hereby

deemed to have emeritus status after having served in the General Assembly eight or more

years to the local tag agent in the counties wherein such members or former members

reside on or before the owner's registration period each year. Such special and distinctive

license plates shall be issued only upon applications made to the local tag agent and

payment of a $25.00 manufacturing fee. License plates may be issued by the local tag

agent upon a proper application and in accordance with the terms of this chapter. License

plates issued pursuant to this Code section need not contain a place for the county name

decal as required pursuant to Code Section 40-2-9, and no county name decal need be

affixed to a license plate issued pursuant to this Code section. Special and distinctive

license plates issued pursuant to this Code section shall be renewed annually, and

revalidation decals shall be issued upon compliance with the laws relating to registration

and licensing and upon payment of subject to an additional annual registration fee of

$35.00 which as a condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional

registration fee of $175.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for

such license plate. The fee required by this Code section shall be collected by the county

tag agent at the time for collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the

state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. The special license plates issued pursuant to

this Code section shall be transferred to another vehicle as provided in Code Section

40-2-80."

SECTION 15.

Said title is further amended by revising Code Section 40-2-63, relating to license plates for
sheriffs, as follows:

"40-2-63.

The commissioner shall mail to the local tag agents special and distinctive license plates

for the elected sheriffs in the counties of this state on or before the owner's registration

period of each sheriff. The sheriffs shall make application with the local tag agent and

shall pay a fee of $25.00. Special sheriffs' license plates issued pursuant to this Code

section shall be renewed annually, and revalidation decals shall be issued upon compliance

with the laws relating to registration and licensing and upon payment of an additional

registration fee of $25.00 which subject to an additional annual registration fee of $25.00

as a condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of

$125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate.

The fee required by this Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time

of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code

Section 40-2-34. License plates shall be issued by the local tag agents upon proper

application and in accordance with the terms of Article 2 of this chapter. Only one special

and distinctive license plate shall be issued to each elected sheriff; however, a sheriff may

choose to use the sheriff's distinctive license plate either on the law enforcement vehicle

assigned to such sheriff or on his or her personal vehicle."

SECTION 16.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-64, relating to license plates for honorary
consuls, by revising subsection (a) as follows:

"(a) Honorary consuls shall be issued license plates as prescribed in Code Section 40-2-31

in duplicate for use on their official or private passenger automobiles, upon application and

compliance with the state motor vehicle laws relative to the registration and licensing of

motor vehicles, payment of the regular license fees for license plates as provided by law,

payment of a manufacturing fee of $25.00, and payment of an additional annual registration

fee of $25.00 which fee as a condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an

additional registration fee of $125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation

decal for such license plate. The fee required by this Code section shall be collected by the

county tag agent at the time of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted as

provided in Code Section 40-2-34, shall be issued license plates as prescribed in Code

Section 40-2-31 in duplicate for use on their official or private passenger automobiles.

Such license plates shall be fastened to both the front and the rear of the vehicle. No more

than two sets of honorary consular corps license plates shall be issued to any country. Such

plates shall not be used by any person after his or her appointment has ended."

SECTION 17.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-64.1, relating to license plates for official
representatives of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representatives Office, by revising
subsection (b) as follows:

"(b) Upon application and compliance with the state motor vehicle laws relating to the

registration and licensing of motor vehicles and the payment of any registration fees,

including the $25.00 manufacturing fee and the $35.00 special license plate fee or the

$35.00 special license plate renewal fee, as applicable, official representatives of the Taipei

Economic and Cultural Representatives Office in the United States who maintain a

presence in Georgia shall be issued Foreign Organization license plates as prescribed in

Code Section 40-2-31 in duplicate. License plates issued pursuant to this Code section

shall be subject to an additional annual registration fee of $35.00 as a condition of

obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of $175.00 as a

condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee

required by this Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of

collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code

Section 40-2-34. Such license plates shall be fastened to both the front and the rear of the

vehicle."

SECTION 18.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-65, relating to license plates for active and
retired reservists and certain members of the National Guard, by revising subsection (a) as
follows:

"(a)(1) Motor vehicle owners who are assigned or attached members of troop program

units of any branch of the active reserve components of the United States inside or

outside the State of Georgia shall be eligible to receive free motor vehicle license plates

for private passenger cars, motorcycles, or trucks used for personal transportation. Motor

vehicle owners who are members of any National Guard unit in a state adjoining the State

of Georgia and for whom there is no National Guard unit in the county of their residence

shall be eligible to receive free motor vehicle plates for private passenger cars,

motorcycles, or trucks used for personal transportation to identify such vehicle owner as

a reservist. Such license plates shall be issued in compliance with the state motor vehicle

laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles as prescribed in Article 2 of

this chapter. No person shall be entitled to more than one free motor vehicle license plate

for any calendar year; provided, however, that, upon payment of the regular license fee

provided for in Code Section 40-2-151 and a manufacturing fee of $25.00, a reservist

shall be entitled to receive one additional such license plate. For each additional license

plate for which an initial $25.00 fee was required, there shall be an additional annual

registration fee of $25.00, which fee as a condition of obtaining an annual revalidation

decal or an additional registration fee of $125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year

revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee required by this paragraph shall be

collected by the county tag agent at the time of collection of other registration fees and

shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. Additional words or

symbols in addition to numbers and letters prescribed by law shall be inscribed upon such

license plates so as to identify distinctively the owner as a member of one of the

following branches of the United States military reserve: Army, Navy, Marines, Air

Force, Space Force, or Coast Guard. The commanding officer of each active reserve

component program unit or the adjutant general of the National Guard unit of each

neighboring state shall, upon request of any reserve member or National Guard member

of that unit, respectively, furnish to that member approved documentation supporting the

member's current membership in the respective reserve or National Guard unit. This

documentation shall be presented annually to the tax commissioner of the county in

which the reserve member or National Guard member applies for the special license plate

under this Code section and upon subsequent reregistration for each succeeding year.

(2) Motor vehicle owners who are retired from any branch of the active reserve

components whose active reservists are eligible to obtain free motor vehicle license plates

under paragraph (1) of this subsection, upon application for license plates and upon

compliance with the state motor vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of

motor vehicles as prescribed under Article 2 of this chapter, shall be issued, free of

charge, a license plate as prescribed in that article for private passenger cars, motorcycles,

or trucks used for personal transportation. Each such retired member shall be entitled to

no more than one such free plate for any calendar year; provided, however, that, upon

payment of the regular license fee provided for in Code Section 40-2-151 and a

manufacturing fee of $25.00, a retired member shall be entitled to receive one additional

such license plate. For each additional license plate for which an initial $25.00 fee was

required, there shall be an additional annual registration fee of $25.00, which fee as a

condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of

$125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate.

The fee required by this paragraph shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time

of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in

Code Section 40-2-34. The license plates issued pursuant to this paragraph shall, in

addition to the numbers and letters prescribed by law, be identical to those issued

pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection to members of the branch of the active

reserve component from which that person retired. The commanding officer of each

active reserve component program unit shall, upon request of any retired reserve member

from that unit, furnish to that retired member approved documentation supporting the

retired member's current retired membership status from that reserve unit.

documentation shall be presented to the tax commissioner of the county in which the

retired reserve member applies for the special license plate under this Code section.

(3) The license plates issued pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection shall contain

the word 'RETIRED' in the location of and in lieu of the name of the county of issuance."

SECTION 19.

This

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-66, relating to license plates for active and
retired members of the Georgia National Guard, by revising paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a) as follows:

"(a)(1) Motor vehicle owners who are members of the Georgia National Guard, upon

application for license plates and upon compliance with the state motor vehicle laws

relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles as prescribed under Article 2 of

this chapter, shall be issued, free of charge, a license plate, as prescribed in that article for

private passenger cars, motorcycles, or trucks used for personal transportation. Each

member of the Georgia National Guard shall be entitled to no more than one such free

plate at a time; provided, however, that, upon payment of the regular license fee provided

for in Code Section 48-10-2 and a manufacturing fee of $25.00, a member shall be

entitled to one additional such license plate. For each additional license plate for which

an initial $25.00 fee was required, there shall be an additional annual registration fee of

$25.00 which fee as a condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional

registration fee of $125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for

such license plate. The fee required by this paragraph shall be collected by the county

tag agent at the time of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the

state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. Additional words or symbols, in addition to

the numbers and letters prescribed by law, shall be inscribed upon such license plates so

as to identify distinctively the owner as a member of the Georgia National Guard. The

adjutant general of Georgia shall, upon request of any member of that National Guard

unit, furnish to that member approved documentation supporting the member's current

membership in that National Guard unit. This documentation shall be presented annually

to the tax commissioner of the county in which the National Guard member applies for

the special license plate under this Code section and upon subsequent reregistration for

each succeeding year.

(2) Motor vehicle owners who are retired members of the Georgia National Guard, upon

application for license plates and upon compliance with the state motor vehicle laws

relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles as prescribed under Article 2 of

this chapter, shall be issued, free of charge, a license plate as prescribed in that article for

private passenger cars, motorcycles, or trucks used for personal transportation. Each

retired member of the Georgia National Guard shall be entitled to no more than one such

free plate at a time; provided, however, that, upon payment of the regular license fee

provided for in Code Section 48-10-2 and a manufacturing fee of $25.00, a member shall

be entitled to one additional such license plate. For each additional license plate for

which an initial $25.00 fee was required, there shall be an additional annual registration

fee of $25.00 which fee as a condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an

additional registration fee of $125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation

decal for such license plate. The fee required by this paragraph shall be collected by the

county tag agent at the time of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted

to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. The license plates issued pursuant to

this paragraph shall, in addition to the numbers and letters prescribed by law, be identical

to those issued pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection. The adjutant general of

Georgia shall, upon request of any member retired from that National Guard unit, furnish

to that retired member approved documentation supporting the member's retired

membership status in that National Guard unit. This documentation shall be presented

annually to the tax commissioner of the county in which the retired National Guard

member applies for the special license plate under this Code section and upon subsequent

reregistration for each succeeding year."

SECTION 20.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-67, relating to license plates for state
commanders of nationally chartered veterans' organizations, by revising subsection (a) as
follows:

"(a) The state commanders of nationally chartered veterans' organizations shall be issued

license plates as prescribed in Code Section 40-2-31 for use on their official or private

passenger automobiles, upon application and compliance with the state motor vehicle laws

relative to the registration and licensing of motor vehicles, upon payment of the regular

license fees for license plates as provided by law, and upon the payment of an additional

initial fee of $25.00 and an additional annual registration fee of $25.00 which fee as a

condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of

$125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate.

The fee required by this subsection shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time

of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted as provided in Code Section

40-2-34, shall be issued license plates as prescribed in Code Section 40-2-31 for use on

their official or private passenger automobiles, upon which,. For a license plate issued

under this Code section, in lieu of the numbers prescribed by said Code section, Code

Section 40-2-31, there shall be such figures or symbols indicative of the office held by such

individuals as may be prescribed by the commissioner."

SECTION 21.

Said title is further amended by revising Code Section 40-2-81, relating to license plates for
members of the Georgia State Defense Force, as follows:

"40-2-81.

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term 'Georgia State Defense Force' means that

organization established pursuant to Part 3 of Article 1 of Chapter 2 of Title 38.

(b)(1) Motor vehicle and trailer owners who are members of the Georgia State Defense

Force shall be eligible to receive special and distinctive vehicle license plates for private

passenger cars, trucks, motorcycles, or recreational vehicles used for personal

transportation. Such license plates shall be issued in compliance with the state motor

vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles as prescribed in

Article 2 of this chapter.

(2)(A) Motor vehicle and trailer owners who are members of the Georgia State

Defense Force shall be issued, upon application for and upon compliance with the state

motor vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles, a Georgia

State Defense Force member license plate. One such license plate shall be issued

without the requisite registration fee, manufacturing fee, or annual registration fee.

(B) Each member of the Georgia State Defense Force shall be entitled to no more than

one such free license plate at a time; provided, however, that, upon payment of a

manufacturing fee of $25.00, a member shall be entitled to one additional such license

plate. For each additional license plate for which a $25.00 manufacturing fee is

required, there shall be an additional annual registration fee of $25.00 which fee as a

condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of

$125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate.

The fee required by this Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at the

time of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided

in Code Section 40-2-34.

(c) The commissioner shall design a Georgia State Defense Force member license plate.

The commissioner shall promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary to

enforce compliance with all state license laws relating to the use and operation of private

passenger cars, trucks, motorcycles, and trailers before issuing these license plates in lieu

of the regular Georgia license plates. The manufacturing fee for such special and

distinctive license plates shall be $25.00. The commissioner is specifically authorized to

promulgate all rules and regulations necessary to ensure compliance in instances where

such vehicles have been transferred or sold. Such Except as provided in subsection (e) of

this Code section, such plates shall be nontransferable.

(d) The special and distinctive vehicle license plates shall be as prescribed in Article 2 of

this chapter for private passenger cars, trucks, motorcycles, and trailers used for personal

transportation. Such plates shall contain such words or symbols, in addition to the numbers

and letters prescribed by law, so as to identify distinctively the owners as members of the

Georgia State Defense Force.

(e) The license plate issued pursuant to this Code section may be transferred between

vehicles as provided in Code Section 40-2-80.

(f)

subparagraph (b)(2)(A) of this Code section, shall be renewed annually with a revalidation

decal as provided in Code Section 40-2-31 without payment of an additional $25.00 annual

registration fee.

(g) Should a member of the Georgia State Defense Force who has been issued a license

plate or license plates be discharged or otherwise separated from the Georgia State Defense

Force, the member shall forward his or her Georgia State Defense Force member license

plate or plates to the commissioner along with a certificate to the effect that such person

Special license plates issued under this Code section, except as provided in

has been discharged or otherwise separated from the Georgia State Defense Force, and

thereupon the commissioner shall issue a regular license plate, at no additional charge, to

such former member of the Georgia State Defense Force to replace the Georgia State

Defense Force member plate or plates."

SECTION 22.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-84, relating to license plates for Purple
Heart recipients, by revising subsection (e) as follows:

"(e) For each additional special license plate issued under this Code section there shall be

an additional $25.00 annual registration fee which fee of $25.00 as a condition of obtaining

an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of $125.00 as a condition of

obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee required by this

Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of collection of other

registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34."

SECTION 23.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-85, relating to license plates for veterans
who survived attack on Pearl Harbor, by revising subsection (e) as follows:

"(e) Special license plates issued under this Code section shall be renewed annually with

a revalidation decal as provided in Code Section 40-2-31. It shall be a requirement that a

county name decal shall be affixed and displayed on license plates issued under this Code

section subject to an additional annual registration fee of $25.00 as a condition of obtaining

an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of $125.00 as a condition of

obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee required by this

Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of collection of other

registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34."

SECTION 24.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-85.1, relating to license plates for certain
veterans, by revising subparagraph (b)(2)(B) and subsections (e.1) and (f) as follows:

"(B) Each member or former member of the armed forces of the United States listed

in this subsection shall be entitled to no more than one such free license plate at a time;

provided, however, that, upon payment of a manufacturing fee of $25.00, a member

shall be entitled to one additional such license plate. For each additional license plate

for which a $25.00 manufacturing fee is required, there shall be an additional annual

registration fee of $25.00, and such fee as a condition of obtaining an annual

revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of $125.00 as a condition of

obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee required by this

subparagraph shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of collection of other

registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34."

"(e.1)(f) The spouse of any person eligible to be issued a special license plate under this

Code section shall also be eligible for such license plate, provided that no motor vehicle

is registered in the name of the eligible person and all other requirements relating to

registration and licensing relative to motor vehicles as prescribed in Article 2 of this

chapter have been satisfied.

(f)(g) Special license plates issued under this Code section, except as provided in

subparagraph (b)(2)(A) of this Code section, shall be renewed annually with a revalidation

decal as provided in Code Section 40-2-31 without payment of an additional $25.00 annual

registration fee subject to an additional annual registration fee of $25.00 as a condition of

obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of $125.00 as a

condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee

required by this Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of

collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code

Section 40-2-34."

SECTION 25.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-85.2, relating to license plates for veterans
of the Chosin Reservoir Campaign, by revising subsection (e) as follows:

"(e) Special license plates issued under this Code section shall be renewed annually with

a revalidation decal, as provided in Code Section 40-2-31, without payment of an

additional $25.00 annual registration fee subject to an additional annual registration fee of

$25.00 as a condition of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration

fee of $125.00 as a condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license

plate. The fee required by this Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at

the time of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided

in Code Section 40-2-34.

(f) Special license plates issued under this Code section shall be transferred between

vehicles as provided in Code Section 40-2-80."

SECTION 26.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-85.3, relating to license plates for Gold
Star family members, by revising subsections (d) through (g) as follows:

"(d) Any motor vehicle owner who is a resident of Georgia, other than one registering

under the International Registration Plan, upon complying with state laws relating to

registration and licensing of motor vehicles shall be issued such a special license plate upon

application therefor. Special license plates issued under this Code section shall be renewed

annually with a revalidation decal as provided in Code Section 40-2-31. Upon payment

of all ad valorem taxes and other fees due at registration of a motor vehicle, an eligible

family member may apply for a Gold Star license plate. In order to qualify as an eligible

family member for purposes of this Code section, the person must be related to the fallen

service member as a spouse, mother, father, sibling, child, stepparent, or surviving spouse

of such service member's sibling. Up to two free license plates shall be allowed for any

eligible family member and they may purchase additional license plates for each motor

vehicle they register in this state. If a Gold Star license plate is lost, damaged, or stolen,

the eligible family member must pay the reasonable cost, to be established by the

department, but not to exceed the cost of other specialty license plates, to replace the Gold

Star license plate An eligible family member shall be entitled to no more than two free

license plates at a time; provided, however, that an eligible family member shall be entitled

to additional license plates upon payment of a manufacturing fee of $25.00. For each

additional license plate for which a $25.00 manufacturing fee is required, there shall be an

additional annual registration fee of $35.00 as a condition of obtaining an annual

revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of $175.00 as a condition of obtaining

a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee required by this Code section

shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of collection of other registration fees

and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34.

(e) Whether a service member is deemed to have been killed in action shall be determined

by the classification of death as listed by the United States Department of Defense and may

be verified from documentation directly from the Department of Defense.

(f) Free Gold Star license plates shall be issued only to eligible family members who

resided in Georgia at the time of the death of the service member. However,; provided,

however, that an eligible family member who was not a resident of Georgia at the time of

the death of the service member may purchase a Gold Star license plate, at a cost to be

established by the department, not to exceed the cost of other specialty license plates shall

be entitled to such license plate upon payment of a manufacturing fee of $25.00.

(g) Renewal decals shall be issued at no cost to any person that received a free license

plate under the provisions of this Code section upon the payment of ad valorem taxes and

other registration fees, provided that the renewal is applied for on or within 30 days prior

to the renewal date of the eligible person. If the eligible person fails to renew within such

time, he or she shall pay a standard renewal fee and be subject to the standard penalties for

late payment of ad valorem taxes due on the motor vehicle A special license plate issued

to an eligible family member pursuant to this Code section shall be issued the required

revalidation decal at no cost. Any special license plate issued pursuant to this Code section

for a fee shall be subject to an additional annual registration fee of $35.00 as a condition

of obtaining an annual revalidation decal or an additional registration fee of $175.00 as a

condition of obtaining a five-year revalidation decal for such license plate. The fee

required by this Code section shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of

collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code

Section 40-2-34."

SECTION 27.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-86, relating to license plates promoting
or supporting certain agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations with proceeds disbursed to
the general fund and the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation, by revising subparagraph
(a)(1)(C) as follows:

"(C) 'Special license plate renewal fee' means a $35.00 fee the fee required to be paid

at the time a revalidation decal is issued for a special license plate. For an annual

revalidation decal, such fee shall be $35.00 and for a five-year revalidation decal, such

fee shall be $175.00."

SECTION 28.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-86.1, relating to license plates promoting
or supporting certain agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations or issued to qualified motor
vehicles or owners with proceeds deposited in the general fund, by revising subsection (d)
as follows:

"(d) Any Georgia resident who is the owner of a motor vehicle, except a vehicle registered

under the International Registration Plan, upon complying with the motor vehicle laws

relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles and upon the payment of a

manufacturing fee of $25.00 and a special license plate fee of $35.00, in addition to the

regular motor vehicle registration fee, shall be able to apply for a special license plate listed

in subsection (l) of this Code section. Revalidation decals shall be issued for special

license plates in the same manner as provided for general issue license plates., with the

addition of a $35.00 special license plate renewal fee, For an annual revalidation decal,

such fee shall be $35.00 and for a five-year revalidation decal, such fee shall be $175.00,

provided that special license plates issued pursuant to paragraph (9) of subsection (l) of this

Code section shall be exempt from such special license plate renewal fee."

SECTION 29.

Said title is further amended in Code Section 40-2-151, relating to annual license fees for
operation of vehicles, fee for permanent licensing of certain trailers, and fee for new
passenger car with paid title ad valorem taxes, by revising subsection (c) as follows:

"(c) The fee for a new motor vehicle which is a passenger car for which the purchaser has

paid state and local title ad valorem taxes and that is being registered as provided in

subsection (d) of Code Section 40-2-20 shall be $40.00 for the two-year registration period.

Upon the election of a five-year motor vehicle registration and revalidation decal by an

owner of an eligible motor vehicle, the fees for the licensing of the operation of such

eligible motor vehicle shall be five times the applicable amount set forth in subsection (a)

of this Code section for the five-year registration period."

SECTION 30.

Said title is further amended by adding a new Code section to read as follows:

"40-2-139.

(a) For purposes of aiding in the enforcement of any emission inspection certification

requirements under Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Title 12, any emission inspection station

holding a valid certificate of authorization from the Department of Natural Resources shall

electronically transmit notice of the issuance of an emission inspection certification to the

department within seven days of such issuance. Such notice shall include the name and

contact information of the emission inspection station, the vehicle identification number

to which such certificate has been issued, and the make and model year of such motor

vehicle. The department shall prescribe the form and manner of electronic transmission

for the purposes of complying with this Code section.

(b) The department shall identify when a motor vehicle owner is required to comply with

emission inspection certification requirements under Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Title 12, and

no motor vehicle registration or renewal thereof shall be issued without notice to the

department pursuant to this Code section that an emission inspection certification has been

issued for such vehicle.

(c)(1) The department shall monitor the reporting by emission inspection stations of the

issuance of emission inspection certifications. When a five-year registration has been

issued by the department for a vehicle identification number recorded in the department's

motor vehicle records that is required to comply with emission certification requirements

under Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Title 12, the department shall annually verify that the

required emission inspection certification notice has been transmitted. The department

shall notify the owner of a motor vehicle with a five-year registration period that lacks

the required annual emission inspection certification. The department shall send such

notice to the address of the owner of the motor vehicle shown in the records of the

department unless such owner has consented to electronic notifications and

communications pursuant to Code Section 40-1-9.

(2) It shall be the duty of the owner of a motor vehicle receiving notice pursuant to

paragraph (1) of this subsection to obtain an emission inspection certification and provide

proof of such certification to the department within 30 days of receipt of such notice. If

proof of an emission inspection certification is not provided within the time period

specified in this Code section, the owner's motor vehicle registration shall be suspended

immediately by operation of law by the department. When such proof is provided and

the owner pays a $60.00 restoration fee, the suspension shall terminate. If any restoration

fee provided for in this Code section is paid to the county tax commissioner, the county

shall retain $10.00 thereof as a collection fee."

SECTION 31.

This Act shall become effective on July 1, 2027.

SECTION 32.

All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
