Senate Bill 524
By: Senators Harbin of the 16th, Walker III of the 20th, Parent of the 44th, Halpern of the
39th, Payne of the 54th and others
AS PASSED
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Chapter 2 of Title 40 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

registration and licensing of motor vehicles, so as to provide for an additional license plate

design honoring the 250th anniversary of the United States of America's independence; to

establish a specialty license plate honoring Girl Scouts of Georgia with proceeds distributed

to the Girl Scouts of Greater Atlanta and the Girl Scouts of Historic Georgia organization;

to provide for related matters; to provide for compliance with constitutional requirements;

to provide for an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

SECTION 1.

Chapter 2 of Title 40 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to registration and

licensing of motor vehicles, is amended in Code Section 40-2-31, relating to license plate

design, retention of manufacturing and delivery costs, and revalidation, county, and "In God

We Trust" decals, by revising subsection (b) as follows:

"(b) License plates issued pursuant to this chapter shall be at least six inches wide and not

less than 12 inches in length, except that motorcycle license plates shall be at least four

inches wide and not less than seven inches in length and license plates for low-speed

vehicles and multipurpose off-highway vehicles shall be a size determined by the

commissioner. All license plates shall show in boldface characters the month and year of

expiration, the serial number, and either the full name or the abbreviation of the name of

the state, shall designate the county from which the license plate was issued unless

specifically stated otherwise in this chapter, and shall show such other distinctive markings

as in the judgment of the commissioner may be deemed advisable, so as to indicate the

class of weight of the vehicle for which the license plate was issued. Any license plate for

a low-speed vehicle or multipurpose off-highway vehicle shall designate the vehicle as

such. Such plates may also bear such figures, characters, letters, or combinations thereof

as in the judgment of the commissioner will to the best advantage advertise, popularize,

and otherwise promote Georgia as the 'Peach State.' Plates issued during the years 2026

through 2030 shall include the design designs approved pursuant to Code

Section 40-2-31.1. Except for license plates issued pursuant to Article 2B of this chapter,

any license plate issued pursuant to this chapter shall be of such strength and quality that

the plate shall provide a minimum service period of at least five years. The commissioner

shall adopt rules and regulations, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the

'Georgia Administrative Procedure Act,' for the design and issuance of new license plates

and to implement the other provisions of this Code section."

SECTION 2.

Said chapter is further amended by revising Code Section 40-2-31.1, relating to design and

selection of United States of America's semiquincentennial license plate, as follows:

"40-2-31.1.

(a) In coordination with the Department of Education, the department shall establish

parameters for the design of and a selection process for a license plate which

commemorates the United States of America's semiquincentennial. The design of such

plate shall be selected from designs submitted by students in grades six through eight as

part of a civics education and engagement program which shall include feedback from the

Georgia Commission on Civics Education, Georgia Center for Civic Engagement, Georgia

Historical Society, Sons of the American Revolution, and Daughters of the American

Revolution.

(b) In addition to the standard license plate design and the design set forth in subsection (a)

of this Code section, the department shall provide for an additional license plate design that

commemorates the anniversary of the United States of America's independence. Such

design shall include the phrase '250 years of freedom and liberty' in place of the county

decal."

SECTION 3.

Said chapter is further amended in Code Section 40-2-86, relating to license plates promoting

or supporting certain agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations with proceeds disbursed to

the general fund and the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation, is amended by adding a new

paragraph to subsection (l) to read as follows:

"(76) A special license plate honoring Girl Scouts of Georgia. The funds raised by the

sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed equally to the Girl Scouts of Greater

Atlanta and the Girl Scouts of Historic Georgia organization."

SECTION 4.

In accordance with the requirements of Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(n) of the

Constitution of the State of Georgia, this Act shall not become law unless it receives the

requisite two-thirds' majority vote in both the Senate and the House of Representatives.

SECTION 5.

This Act shall become effective on January 1, 2027.

SECTION 6.

All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
