Senate File 2420 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2420
BY COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE
(SUCCESSOR TO SSB 3123)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to agriculture, including by providing for
the powers and duties of the department of agriculture and
land stewardship, including the promotion and regulation
of commodities and products, the regulation of the
transportation of agricultural commodities, and the use
of agricultural land, making penalties applicable, and
including effective date provisions.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 6601SV (2) 91
da/js

DIVISION I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP —— PROMOTION ——
RENEWABLE FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE
Section 1. Section 159A.16, subsection 3, paragraphs a, b,
and c, Code 2026, are amended to read as follows:
a. For each fiscal year, not more than one million
seven hundred fifty thousand dollars shall be allocated to
support the renewable fuel infrastructure program for retail
motor fuel sites as provided in section 159A.14 to finance
the installation, replacement, or conversion of biodiesel
infrastructure as provided in that section.
b. a. For each fiscal year, not more than one hundred
fifty thousand dollars shall be allocated to the department to
support the administration of the programs.
c. b. For each fiscal year, the department may use up to
three-quarters of one percent of the program funds to market
the programs. Otherwise the moneys shall not be transferred,
used, obligated, appropriated, or otherwise encumbered except
to allocate as financial incentives under the programs.
DIVISION II
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP —— PROMOTION
GENERAL
Sec. 2. Section 23A.2, subsection 8, Code 2026, is amended
by adding the following new paragraph:
NEW PARAGRAPH. p. An activity carried out by the department
of agriculture and land stewardship to promote the marketing
of Iowa commodities and products, including as provided in
chapters 159 and 187.
Sec. 3. Section 187.201, subsection 3, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
3. Moneys in the fund are appropriated to the department and
shall be used exclusively to administer the programs created
in this subchapter chapter as determined and directed by the
department, and shall not require further special authorization

da/js

1/33

by the general assembly.
CHOOSE IOWA PROMOTION PROGRAMS
Sec. 4. Section 187.301, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 1A. The department shall enroll a person as
a choose Iowa member who is any of the following:
a. Actively participating in the program by producing,
processing, or marketing Iowa agricultural products originating
as commodities produced on Iowa farms.
b. Otherwise supporting the program as required by the
department.
Sec. 5. Section 187.301, subsection 2, Code 2026, is amended
by adding the following new paragraph:
NEW PARAGRAPH. c. The department may adopt rules providing
for choose Iowa membership criteria.
Sec. 6. Section 187.303, subsections 1 and 2, Code 2026, are
amended to read as follows:
1. A person may apply to the department to participate
enroll as a member in the choose Iowa promotional program
according to procedures established by rules adopted by the
department. The department shall evaluate and approve or
disapprove applications an application based on criteria
established by rules adopted by the department. The department
may disapprove an application if the department determines the
applicant’s use of the choose Iowa logo would be associated
with the consumption of an adulterated or illegal food item.
2. The department may enter into a licensing agreement with
a person participating enrolled as a member in the program.
The participating person A member may use the choose Iowa logo
to advertise a food item product originating as an agricultural
commodity produced on an Iowa farm, subject to terms and
conditions required by rules adopted by the department. A
licensing agreement shall not be for more than one year.
Sec. 7. NEW SECTION. 187.307 Choose Iowa school purchasing

da/js

2/33

program.
1. There is created within the department a choose Iowa
school purchasing program.
2. The department shall administer the program according to
all of the following:
a. A farm or business shall be eligible to participate in
the program if the farm or business is enrolled as a member of
the choose Iowa promotional program as provided in this part 1
of subchapter III.
b. A school or school district is eligible to participate in
the program, if recognized by the department.
c. A qualified food product is limited to meat and poultry,
dairy products other than milk, grains, flour, eggs, honey, and
produce.
3. a. An eligible school or school district purchasing
a qualified food product from an eligible farm or business
shall be reimbursed on a matching basis with the department
contributing one dollar for every one dollar expended by the
eligible school or school district.
b. The department may establish by rule the method and
limitations for determining the amount of funding available to
each school or school district under this section.
c. Notwithstanding paragraph “b”, if the department
determines that there are not sufficient moneys to satisfy
all claims that may be submitted by schools and school
districts, the department shall provide for the distribution
of the available moneys in a manner determined equitable by
the department, which may include a prorated distribution to
participating schools and school districts.
4. The department may administer the program in cooperation
with the department of education and the participating school
or school district in which a participating school is located.
5. The department may use not more than five percent of the
moneys appropriated to support the program in a fiscal year to
pay for the costs of administering the program.

da/js

3/33

6. The department shall prepare and submit a report
regarding its findings and recommendations to the governor and
general assembly not later than July 31 of each year.
Sec. 8. Section 187.331, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
187.331 Choose Iowa food bank purchasing program.
1. There is created within the department a choose Iowa food
bank purchasing program.
2. The department shall administer the program according to
all of the following requirements:
a. A farm or business that owns or operates the farm source
shall be given a preference to participate in the program if
the farm or business is currently participating eligible to
participate in the program if the farm or business is enrolled
as a member in the choose Iowa promotional program as provided
in this part 1 of subchapter III. Otherwise, a farm or
business may participate in the program if the farm or business
has applied to participate in the choose Iowa promotional
program and the department determines that the application will
be approved.
b. An eligible participant is limited to any Iowa food bank
or an Iowa emergency feeding organization, recognized by the
department.
c. A qualified food product is limited to meat and poultry,
dairy products, grains, flour, eggs, honey, and produce.
3. a. Of the moneys appropriated to support the program in
a fiscal year, not more than two hundred thousand dollars shall
be used to reimburse Iowa food banks and Iowa emergency feeding
organizations.
b. 3. a. An eligible participant Iowa food bank or an
emergency feeding organization purchasing a qualified food
product from an eligible farm or business shall be reimbursed
on a matching basis with the department contributing one dollar
for every one dollar expended by the eligible participant Iowa
food bank or emergency feeding organization.

da/js

4/33

c. b. An Iowa food bank or Iowa emergency feeding
organization shall not receive more than fifty thousand dollars
per fiscal year for participating in the program.
4. c. The department may use not more than five percent of
the moneys appropriated to support the program in a fiscal year
to pay for the costs of administering the program.
5. 4. The department shall prepare and submit a report
regarding its findings and recommendations to the governor and
general assembly not later than January 15 July 31 of each
year.
6. This section is repealed July 1, 2030.
Sec. 9. Section 190A.2, subsections 5 and 9, Code 2026, are
amended by striking the subsections.
Sec. 10. Section 190A.2, subsection 7, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
7. “Program” means the farm-to-school program created in
section 190A.6 190A.3.
Sec. 11. Section 190A.3, subsection 1, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
1. The A farm-to-school program is created within the
department. The program shall seek to link elementary and
secondary public and nonpublic schools in this state with Iowa
farms to provide schools with fresh and minimally processed
food products for inclusion in school meals and snacks,
encourage children to develop healthy eating habits, and
provide Iowa farmers access to consumer markets.
Sec. 12. Section 190A.5, subsection 3, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
3. Moneys in the fund are appropriated to support
the farm-to-school program in a manner determined by the
department, including for reasonable administrative costs
incurred by the department. However, the department shall
not expend more than four percent of moneys existing at any
one time in the fund during each fiscal year for purpose of
paying costs associated with the administration of the program

da/js

5/33

and fund incurred by the department during that fiscal year.
Moneys expended from the fund shall not require further special
authorization by the general assembly.
Sec. 13. REPEAL. Section 190A.6, Code 2026, is repealed.
Sec. 14. CODE EDITOR DIRECTIVE.
1. The Code editor is directed to make the following
transfers:
a. Section 187.331 to section 187.308.
b. Section 159.25 to section 187.309.
2. The Code editor shall correct internal references in the
Code and in any enacted legislation as necessary due to the
enactment of this section.
PART C
INNOVATION AND REVITALIZATION PROGRAMS
Sec. 15. Section 187.311, Code 2026, is amended by adding
the following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 5A. The department may give priority to an
applicant who is a beginning farmer.
Sec. 16. NEW SECTION. 187.315 Butchery innovation and
revitalization program.
1. A butchery innovation and revitalization program is
created within the department. The purpose of the program is
to promote the development, modernization, and expansion of
this state’s butchery industry.
2. In administering the program, the department shall award
financial assistance to eligible businesses to support projects
that do one or more of the following:
a. To expand or refurbish an existing, or to establish a
new, state-inspected small-scale meat processing business.
b. To expand or refurbish an existing, or to establish a
new, federally inspected small-scale meat processing business.
c. To expand or refurbish an existing, or to establish a
new, licensed custom locker.
d. To expand or refurbish an existing, or to establish a
new, mobile slaughter unit that operates in compliance with

da/js

6/33

the most current mobile slaughter unit compliance guide issued
by the United States department of agriculture food safety and
inspection service.
e. To rent buildings, refrigeration facilities, freezer
facilities, or equipment necessary to expand processing
capacity, including mobile slaughter or refrigeration units
used exclusively for meat or poultry processing.
3. The department shall establish eligibility criteria for
the program. The eligibility criteria must include all of the
following:
a. The business must be located in this state.
b. The business must not have been subject to any regulatory
enforcement action related to federal, state, or local
environmental, worker safety, food processing, or food safety
laws, rules, or regulations within the last five years.
c. The business must only employ individuals legally
authorized to work in this state.
d. The business must not currently be in bankruptcy.
e. The business must employ less than two hundred full-time
nonseasonal individuals.
4. An eligible business seeking financial assistance under
this section shall make application to the department in the
manner and on forms prescribed by the department.
5. Applications for financial assistance under this section
shall be accepted during one or more annual application periods
established by the department. Upon reviewing and scoring all
applications that are received during an application period,
and subject to the availability of moneys, the department may
award financial assistance to eligible businesses. A financial
assistance award shall not exceed the amount of eligible
project costs included in the eligible business’s application.
Priority shall be given to eligible businesses whose proposed
project or projects under subsection 2 are most likely to do
one or more of the following:
a. Create new jobs.

da/js

7/33

b. Create or expand opportunities for local small-scale
farmers to market processed meat under private labels.
c. Provide greater flexibility or convenience for local
small-scale farmers to have animals processed.
6. An eligible business that is awarded financial
assistance under this section may apply for financial
assistance under other programs administered by the department.
Sec. 17. REPEAL. Section 15E.370, Code 2026, is repealed.
DIVISION III
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP REGULATION ——
ANIMAL HEALTH
Sec. 18. Section 163.1, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 7A. Lease facilities in order to carry out
and administer the provisions of this chapter related to an
infectious or contagious disease or a foreign animal disease
preparedness and response effort.
Sec. 19. NEW SECTION. 163.2B Confidentiality.
1. Notwithstanding section 22.7, all information and
records relating to an infectious or contagious disease
received or collected by the department pursuant to this
chapter, including rules adopted under this chapter by the
department, is confidential to the extent it identifies any of
the following:
a. The name, address, and contact information of any person
owning or caring for an animal suspected of or being affected
with any infectious or contagious disease.
b. Any location where an animal suspected of or being
affected with any infectious or contagious disease has been
kept.
c. Information that when considered together leads to the
identity of a person described in paragraph “a” or a location or
premises described in paragraph “b”.
2. Notwithstanding subsection 1, the department, in
acting as the lawful custodian of the confidential record, may

da/js

8/33

disclose the record or any part of the record if it is deemed
necessary by the state veterinarian to protect the public
health or the health or well-being of animals within the state.
DIVISION IV
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP —— REGULATION
—— WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Sec. 20. Section 210.1, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
210.1 Standard established Weights and measures standards ——
compliance with federal law.
The weights and measures which have been presented by the
department to the United States national institute of standards
and technology and approved, standardized, and certified by
the institute in accordance with the laws of the Congress of
the United States shall be the standard weights and measures
throughout the state regulated under this chapter shall conform
with Iowa’s state primary standard of weights and measures as
described in section 215.1B.
Sec. 21. Section 213.1, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
213.1 State metrologist.
The department secretary of agriculture may designate
one of its assistants the bureau chief of the department’s
weights and measures bureau to act as state metrologist
of weights and measures. All weights and measures sealed
by the state metrologist shall be impressed with the word
“Iowa.” The bureau chief is the appropriate state official
responsible for cooperating with the national institute of
standards and technology as defined in section 215.1 and in the
administration of weights and measures as regulated in this
subtitle.
Sec. 22. Section 213.2, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
213.2 Physical United States standards —— conformity.
Weights and measures, which conform to the standards of the

da/js

9/33

United States national institute of standards and technology
existing as of January 1, 1979, that are metrologically
traceable to the United States standards supplied by the
federal government or approved as being in compliance with
its standards recognized by the national bureau institute of
standards and technology shall be the Iowa’s state primary
standard of weights and measures as verified by the department.
Such The traceable standards of weights and measures shall
be verified upon their initial receipt of same by the
department and as often as deemed necessary by the secretary
of agriculture department. The secretary department may
provide for the alteration in revise the state primary standard
of weights and measures in order to maintain metrological
traceability with the standard standards of the United States
national institute of standards and technology. All such
alterations The verification or revision shall be made pursuant
to rules promulgated adopted by the secretary department in
accordance with chapter 17A.
Sec. 23. Section 214.3, subsection 1, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
1. A license fee is imposed on a person who uses or
displays for use a commercial weighing and measuring device.
The license fee is due the day the department issues the
license. The amount of the license fee shall be calculated in
accordance with the class or section for devices as established
by handbook 44 of the United States national institute of
standards and technology.
Sec. 24. Section 215.1, subsection 1, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
1. a. “Commercial weighing and measuring device” or “device”
means a weight or measure or weighing or measuring device
used to establish size, quantity, area or other quantitative
measurement of a commodity sold by weight or measurement, or
where when the price to be paid for producing the commodity is
based upon the weight or measurement of the commodity. The

da/js

10/33

term
b. “Commercial weighing and measuring device” includes an any
of the following:
(1) An accessory attached to or used in connection with
a commercial weighing or measuring device when the accessory
is so designed or installed that its operation may affect the
accuracy of the device. “Commercial weighing and measuring
device” includes a
(2) A public scale or a commercial scanner.
Sec. 25. Section 215.1, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 3A. “National institute of standards and
technology” means the national institute of standards and
technology established within the United States department of
commerce pursuant to 15 U.S.C. §272.
Sec. 26. Section 215.1A, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
215.1A Inspections.
1. The Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute,
the department shall regularly of agriculture and land
stewardship may inspect all any commercial weighing and
measuring devices, and when device. If the department
receives a complaint is made to the department that any false
or incorrect alleging weights or measures are being made
inaccurately recorded by a device, the department shall inspect
the commercial weighing and measuring devices which caused the
complaint device.
2. The department may inspect a prepackaged goods good to
determine the accuracy of their its recorded weights weight.
3. a. The department may order the owner of the device
or a service agency that installed, serviced, or repaired the
device, to deliver to the department one or more of the service
agency’s most recent test reports documenting the device’s
accuracy.
b. (1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2), the delivery

da/js

11/33

of a report may be in lieu of an inspection.
(2) The department shall provide for an inspection of any
of the following:
(a) A motor fuel pump as required in section 214.11.
(b) A moisture-measuring device as required in section
215A.2.
(c) A charging station dispensing electric fuel as required
in section 452A.41.
Sec. 27. Section 215.14, subsection 3, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
3. Before approval by the department, the specifications
for a commercial weighing and measuring device shall be
furnished to the purchaser of the device by the manufacturer.
The approval shall be based upon the recommendation of the
United States national institute of standards and technology.
Sec. 28. Section 215.19, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
215.19 Automatic recorders on scales.
Except for scales a scale used by packers a packer
slaughtering fewer than one hundred twenty head of livestock
per day, all scales a scale with a capacity over five hundred
pounds, which are used for commercial purposes, in this
state, and installed after January 1, 1981, shall be equipped
with a type-registering weigh beam, a dial with a mechanical
ticket printer, an automatic weight recorder, or some similar
commercial weighing and measuring device, which shall be used
for printing or stamping the weight values on scale tickets.
A scale or similar device equipped with a malfunctioning
automatic weight recorder may shall not be used for not more
than seven days if the scale or similar device is unable to
print or stamp the ticket so long as and only if a repair to the
automatic recorder is immediately initiated and the user dates,
signs, and accurately handwrites the required information on
the ticket until the scale or similar device is operational.
Sec. 29. Section 215.23, subsection 2, Code 2026, is amended

da/js

12/33

to read as follows:
2. In determining a servicer’s qualifications, the
department may consider the specifications of the United States
national institute of standards and technology, handbook 44,
“Specifications, Tolerances, and Technical Requirements for
Weighing and Measuring Devices”, or the current successor or
equivalent specifications adopted by the United States national
institute of standards and technology.
Sec. 30. Section 452A.40, Code 2026, is amended by adding
the following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 5A. “National institute of standards and
technology” means the same as defined in section 215.1.
Sec. 31. REPEAL. Sections 213.3 and 213.7, Code 2026, are
repealed.
Sec. 32. CODE EDITOR DIRECTIVE.
1. The Code editor is directed to make the following
transfers:
a. Section 213.1 to section 215.1B.
b. Section 213.2 to section 215.1C.
c. Section 215.18 to section 215.1D.
d. Section 215.1A to section 215.1E.
2. The Code editor shall correct internal references in the
Code and in any enacted legislation as necessary due to the
enactment of this section.
DIVISION V
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP REGULATION ——
GRAIN MARKETING
GRAIN DEALERS
Sec. 33. Section 203.3, subsection 4, paragraph b, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
b. (1) The grain dealer shall submit to the department,
as required by the department, a financial statement that is
accompanied by an unqualified opinion based upon an audit
performed by a certified public accountant licensed in this

da/js

13/33

state.
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), if a grain dealer
does not purchase grain by credit-sale contract, the department
may accept any of the following:
(a) A qualification in an opinion based on an audit that
is unavoidable by any audit procedure that is permitted under
generally accepted accounting principles. An opinion that
is qualified because of a limited audit procedure or because
the scope of an audit is limited shall not be accepted by the
department.
(b) A financial statement that is accompanied by the
report of a certified public accountant licensed in this
state. The report must be based upon a review performed by the
certified public accountant. The report shall be in lieu of an
unqualified opinion based on an audit. However, at any time,
upon good cause, the department may require the grain dealer to
submit to the department a subsequent financial statement that
is accompanied by the report.
(3) The department shall not require that a grain dealer to
submit to the department more than one such unqualified opinion
based on an audit per year.
(4) A grain dealer shall submit one or more financial
statements to the department in addition to the financial
statement accompanied by an unqualified opinion based on
an audit as required in this paragraph if the department
determines that it is necessary to verify the grain dealer’s
financial status or compliance with this section.
Sec. 34. Section 203.3, subsection 5, paragraph b, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
b. (1) The grain dealer shall submit to the department,
as required by the department, a financial statement that is
accompanied by an unqualified opinion based upon an audit
performed by a certified public accountant licensed in this
state.
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), the department may

da/js

14/33

accept any of the following:
(a) A qualification in an opinion based on an audit that
is unavoidable by any audit procedure that is permitted under
generally accepted accounting principles. An opinion that
is qualified because of a limited audit procedure or because
the scope of an audit is limited shall not be accepted by the
department.
(b) A financial statement that is accompanied by the
report of a certified public accountant licensed in this
state. The report must be based upon a review performed by the
certified public accountant. The report shall be in lieu of an
unqualified opinion based on an audit. However, at any time,
upon good cause, the department may require the grain dealer to
submit to the department a subsequent financial statement that
is accompanied by the report.
(3) The department shall not require that a grain dealer to
submit to the department more than one such unqualified opinion
based on an audit per year.
(4) A grain dealer shall submit one or more financial
statements to the department in addition to the financial
statement accompanied by an unqualified opinion based on an
audit required in this paragraph if the department determines
that it is necessary to verify the grain dealer’s financial
status or compliance with this section.
Sec. 35. Section 203.8, subsection 2, paragraph a, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
a. (1) “Delivery” Subject to subparagraph (2), “delivery”
means the transfer of title to and possession of grain by a
seller to a grain dealer or to another person in accordance
with the terms of an agreement of by the seller and the grain
dealer.
(2) Unless title to grain was previously transferred
pursuant to an ordinary cash-sale contract, title to grain sold
by credit-sale contract is deemed to have transferred to the
grain dealer when all of the following occurs:

da/js

15/33

(a) The credit-sale contract is signed by both the grain
dealer and the seller.
(b) The grain dealer has possession of the grain or another
person has possession of the grain in accordance with the terms
of the credit-sale contract.
Sec. 36. Section 203.12, subsection 1, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
1. Upon the cessation of a grain dealer license by
revocation, cancellation, or expiration pursuant to section
203.10 or upon the filing of a petition in bankruptcy by a
grain dealer, any claim for the purchase price of grain against
the grain dealer shall be made in writing and filed with the
grain dealer and with the issuer of a deficiency bond or of an
irrevocable letter of credit and with the department within
one hundred twenty days after the date of the cessation or the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy, whichever occurs earlier.
A failure to make this timely claim relieves the issuer and the
grain depositors and sellers indemnity fund provided in chapter
203D of all obligations to the claimant.
Sec. 37. Section 203.12A, subsection 5, Code 2026, is
amended to read as follows:
5. The Iowa grain indemnity fund board, upon written demand
of the grain dealer, shall file a termination statement with
the secretary of state, if after one hundred eighty days from
the date that the lien is perfected the grain dealer’s license
has not ceased by revocation, cancellation, or expiration
pursuant to section 203C.10. Upon filing the termination
statement, the lien becomes unperfected. The board shall
also deliver a copy of the termination statement to the grain
dealer.
GRAIN OPERATORS
Sec. 38. Section 203C.6, subsection 4, paragraph b, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
b. (1) The warehouse operator shall submit to the

da/js

16/33

department, as required by the department, a financial
statement that is accompanied by an unqualified opinion based
upon an audit performed by a certified public accountant
licensed in this state.
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), the department may
accept any of the following:
(a) A qualification in an opinion based on an audit that
is unavoidable by any audit procedure that is permitted under
generally accepted accounting principles. An opinion that
is qualified because of a limited audit procedure or because
the scope of an audit is limited shall not be accepted by the
department.
(b) A financial statement that is accompanied by the
report of a certified public accountant licensed in this
state. The report must be based upon a review performed by
the certified public accountant. The report shall be in lieu
of an unqualified opinion based on an audit. However, at any
time, upon good cause, the department may require the warehouse
operator to submit to the department a subsequent financial
statement that is accompanied by the report.
(3) The department shall not require that a warehouse
operator to submit to the department more than one such
unqualified opinion based on an audit per year.
(4) A warehouse operator shall submit one or more financial
statements to the department in addition to the financial
statement accompanied by an unqualified opinion based on
an audit as required in this paragraph if the department
determines that it is necessary to verify the warehouse
operator’s financial status or compliance with this section.
Sec. 39. Section 203C.6, subsection 5, paragraph b, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
b. (1) The warehouse operator shall submit to the
department, as required by the department, a financial
statement that is accompanied by an unqualified opinion based
upon an audit performed by a certified public accountant

da/js

17/33

licensed in this state.
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), the department may
accept any of the following:
(a) A qualification in an opinion based on an audit that
is unavoidable by any audit procedure that is permitted under
generally accepted accounting principles. An opinion that
is qualified because of a limited audit procedure or because
the scope of an audit is limited shall not be accepted by the
department.
(b) A financial statement that is accompanied by the
report of a certified public accountant licensed in this
state. The report must be based upon a review performed by
the certified public accountant. The report shall be in lieu
of an unqualified opinion based on an audit. However, at any
time, upon good cause, the department may require the warehouse
operator to submit to the department a subsequent financial
statement that is accompanied by the report.
(3) The department shall not require that a warehouse
operator to submit more than one such unqualified opinion based
on an audit per year.
(4) A warehouse operator shall submit one or more financial
statements to the department in addition to the financial
statement accompanied by an unqualified opinion based on
an audit as required in this paragraph if the department
determines that it is necessary to verify the warehouse
operator’s financial status or compliance with this section.
Sec. 40. Section 203C.12A, subsection 5, Code 2026, is
amended to read as follows:
5. The Iowa grain indemnity fund board shall upon written
demand of the warehouse operator file a termination statement
with the secretary of state, if after one hundred eighty
days from the date that the lien is perfected the warehouse
operator’s license has not ceased by revocation, cancellation,
or expiration pursuant to section 203C.10. Upon filing the
termination statement, the lien becomes unperfected. The board

da/js

18/33

shall also deliver a copy of the termination statement to the
warehouse operator.
Sec. 41. Section 203C.14, subsection 2, paragraphs a and c,
Code 2026, are amended to read as follows:
a. Upon the cessation of a warehouse operator’s license due
to revocation, cancellation, or expiration pursuant to section
203C.10 or upon the filing of a petition in bankruptcy by a
warehouse operator, a claim against the warehouse operator
arising under this chapter shall be made in writing with the
warehouse operator, with the issuer of a bond on agricultural
products other than bulk grain, a deficiency bond, or an
irrevocable letter of credit, and, if the claim relates to bulk
grain, with the department. The claim must be made within one
hundred twenty days after the cessation of the license or the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy, whichever occurs earlier.
The failure to make a timely claim relieves the issuer and,
if the claim relates to bulk grain, the grain depositors
and sellers indemnity fund provided in chapter 203D of all
obligations to the claimant.
c. This subsection does not apply if a receiver is appointed
as provided in this chapter pursuant to a petition which that
is filed by the department prior to the expiration of one
hundred twenty days after cessation of a warehouse operator’s
license pursuant to section 203C.10.
Sec. 42. Section 203C.18, subsection 3, Code 2026, is
amended to read as follows:
3. A form for a warehouse receipt shall only be printed by
a person approved by the department. A form for a warehouse
receipt shall be printed in accordance with specifications set
forth by the department. A warehouse operator shall surrender
to the department all forms for warehouse receipts that are
unused at the time that the warehouse operator’s license
is suspended or ceases due to revocation, cancellation, or
expiration pursuant to section 203C.10. The warehouse operator
shall surrender the warehouse receipts in a manner required by

da/js

19/33

the department.
PART C
GRAIN DEPOSITORS AND SELLERS INDEMNIFICATION
Sec. 43. Section 203D.3A, subsection 2, Code 2026, is
amended by adding the following new paragraph:
NEW PARAGRAPH. e. (1) If the per-bushel fee is passed
on to a seller, the per-bushel fee shall occur at the time of
payment.
(2) As used in subparagraph (1), “payment” means the same as
defined in section 203.8.
Sec. 44. Section 203D.6, subsection 8, paragraph a, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
a. Upon a determination by the board that an eligible
claim satisfies the requirements in subsection 4, the board
shall indemnify the claimant as a depositor under subsection
5, and a seller under subsection 6. Upon a determination by
the board that an eligible repayment claim was filed by that
seller under section 203D.6A, derives from the same covered
transaction during the claim period, and the repayment loss
incurred for that claim, the board shall indemnify the claimant
as a seller subject to the requirements of this section and
section 203D.6A.
Sec. 45. Section 203D.6A, subsection 2, Code 2026, is
amended to read as follows:
2. To be timely, a seller must file a repayment claim with
the department not later than sixty days after the amount
of the seller’s loss is finalized by a bankruptcy court,
whether by an order issued, judgment entered, or settlement
agreement approved. However, if a seller’s loss is based upon
a bankruptcy court’s default judgment, to be timely, the seller
must file a repayment claim with the department not later than
sixty days after the bankruptcy court’s default judgment is
entered or a subsequent settlement agreement is approved and
entered, whichever is later.
DIVISION VI

da/js

20/33

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION REGULATION —— MOTOR VEHICLES
MILK HAULERS
Sec. 46. Section 321E.29B, subsection 1, Code 2026, is
amended to read as follows:
1. Notwithstanding section 321E.8, the department
permit-issuing authority may issue annual permits for the
operation of vehicles or combinations of vehicles transporting
fluid milk products to or from a milk plant, receiving
station, or transfer station, exceeding the weight limitation
of section 321.463 but not exceeding a gross weight of
ninety-six one hundred thirty-six thousand pounds, on primary
roads and primary road extensions in cities. The department
shall establish rules regarding minimum distances for axle
configurations.
Sec. 47. EFFECTIVE DATE. This part of this division of this
Act takes effect January 1, 2027.
IMPLEMENTS OF HUSBANDRY
Sec. 48. Section 321.457, subsection 2, paragraph f, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
f. (1) A trailer or semitrailer, laden or unladen, shall
not have an overall length in excess of fifty-three feet
when operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination
exclusive of retractable extensions used to support the load.
However, when a trailer or semitrailer is used exclusively
for the transportation of passenger vehicles, light delivery
trucks, panel delivery trucks, pickup trucks, recreational
vehicle chassis, or boats, the load carried on the trailer or
semitrailer may extend up to three feet beyond the front bumper
and up to four feet beyond the rear bumper of the trailer or
semitrailer.
(2) A lowboy semitrailer, laden or unladen, which that is
designed and exclusively used for the transportation of either
construction equipment or an implement of husbandry shall not

da/js

21/33

have an overall length in excess of fifty-seven feet when used
in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination.
DIVISION VII
AGRICULTURAL TOURISM
Sec. 49. Section 673A.3, subsection 6, paragraph b, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
b. “Farm” includes but is not limited to a farm field,
orchard, tree farm, nursery, greenhouse, garden, elevator,
seedhouse, barn, warehouse, animal feeding operation structure,
winery, brewery, distillery, or any personal property located
on the land including machinery or equipment used in the
production of a farm commodity.
Sec. 50. Section 673A.3, subsection 9, Code 2026, is amended
to read as follows:
9. “Farm crop” means a plant or fungus used for food, animal
feed, fiber, or oil, energy, or decoration, including any of
the following:
a. A forage or cereal plant, including but not limited to
alfalfa, barley, buckwheat, corn, flax, forage, millet, oats,
popcorn, rye, sorghum, soybeans, sunflowers, wheat, and grasses
used for forage or silage.
b. Edible or ornamental produce, including but not limited
to fruit such as apples, cherries, peaches, pears, berries, and
grapes; vegetables such as asparagus, broccoli, and carrots;
lentils; tubers; squashes and pumpkins; gourds; nuts; maple
syrup; mushrooms; Christmas trees; and flowers.
c. Honey.
DIVISION VIII
LAND USE
Sec. 51. Section 335.2, Code 2026, is amended by adding the
following new subsection:
NEW SUBSECTION. 4. As used in subsection 1, an agricultural
purpose includes but is not limited to an agricultural tourism
activity or event, value-added agricultural processing,
direct-to-consumer marketing, or other on-farm enterprises that

da/js

22/33

support the economic viability of the farm.
Sec. 52. Section 335.28, Code 2026, is amended to read as
follows:
335.28 Agricultural experiences experience.
1. a. For purposes of this section, “agricultural
experience” includes but is not limited to any
agriculture-related activity, or agriculture-related
event, as a that constitutes a secondary use in conjunction
with agricultural production, on a farm which if the
agriculture-related activity, or agriculture-related event,
is located on a farm and open to the public with for the
intended purpose of promoting or educating the public about
agriculture, agricultural practices, agricultural activities,
or agricultural products.
b. “Agricultural experience” also includes any of the
following:
(1) Agricultural tourism activities, such as recreational,
entertainment, dining, or celebratory events, or short-term
rental opportunities offered on a working farm, so long as the
farm’s primary use remains agricultural production.
(2) A fair event conducted on a fairgrounds under the
management or control of a fair as defined in section 174.1.
2. To assist in the promotion of agricultural experiences,
a county shall not require a conditional use permit, special
use permit, special exception, or variance for an agricultural
experiences experience on property of which the primary use is
agricultural production.
Sec. 53. EFFECTIVE DATE. This division of this Act, being
deemed of immediate importance, takes effect upon enactment.
Sec. 54. APPLICABILITY. Any conditional use permit,
special use permit, special exception, or variance described
in section 335.28, as amended by this division of this Act, is
void and unenforceable.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with

da/js

23/33

the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

GENERAL. This bill amends a number of Code chapters
relating to agriculture, including providing for the powers and
duties of the department of agriculture and land stewardship
(DALS). The bill provides for the promotion and regulation
of commodities and regulation by DALS, including fees, and
the transportation of agricultural items by the department
of transportation (DOT). The bill provides for the use of
agricultural land, including agricultural tourism.
DIVISION I —— DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP
—— PROMOTION —— RENEWABLE FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE —— BACKGROUND.
Code chapter 159A, subchapter II, authorizes DALS to administer
a renewable fuel infrastructure program for retail motor fuel
sites (Code section 159.14) and a renewable fuel infrastructure
program for biodiesel terminal facilities (Code section
159A.15). The purpose of the program is to finance the
improvement of facilities used to store, blend, or dispense
renewable fuels, commonly derived from corn or soybeans. The
programs are supported by the renewable fuel infrastructure
fund (Code section 159A.16), which is appropriated $5 million
each fiscal year (Code section 159.17).
DIVISION I —— DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP
—— PROMOTION —— RENEWABLE FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE —— BILL’S
PROVISIONS. This division increases the amount of moneys
appropriated from the renewable fuel infrastructure fund each
fiscal year for administrative costs incurred by DALS from
$100,000 to $150,000.
DIVISION II —— DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND
STEWARDSHIP —— PROMOTION —— BACKGROUND. Code chapter 189
authorizes DALS to administer a number of programs providing
for the promotion of agriculture in this state. The Code
chapter provides for the financing of the programs, including
the creation of a choose Iowa fund (Code section 187.201). The
Code chapter provides for a choose Iowa promotional program
that supports the marketing of agricultural commodities and

da/js

24/33

processed products originating from Iowa farms (Code section
187.301). The choose Iowa program allows a person to register
as a seller of Iowa commodities and products and receives the
right to use a legally protected logo under a paid license
(Code sections 187.302 and 187.303). The Code chapter includes
a choose Iowa food purchasing program that supports Iowa
food banks and emergency feeding operations (Code section
187.311). A farm or business enrolled in the choose Iowa
program is provided a preference to participate in the choose
Iowa food purchasing program. Under Code chapter 190A, DALS
also administers a farm-to-school program to support schools
and school districts in purchasing food products derived from
food commodities produced on Iowa farms (Code section 190A.6).
A dairy innovation program authorizes DALS to provide financing
to an eligible business in the form of a grant, low-interest
loan, or forgivable loan in order to expand dairy processing
capacity in Iowa (Code section 187.311).
PART A —— GENERAL —— BILL’S PROVISIONS. This part creates
an exception to a provision that restricts state agencies from
engaging in an activity that competes with a private enterprise
(Code section 23A.2). The part amends the choose Iowa program
by providing for the enrollment of persons actively engaged in
producing, processing, or marketing Iowa agricultural products.
PART B —— CHOOSE IOWA PROMOTIONAL PROGRAMS —— BILL’S
PROVISIONS. Under this part, DALS may adopt administrative
rules providing for criteria for enrollment in the choose
Iowa promotion program. The part establishes a choose Iowa
school purchasing program based on the current farm-to-school
program, which is eliminated. Under the new program, an
eligible participant is reimbursed on a matching basis with
DALS contributing $1 for every $1 expended by the eligible
participant. The division renames the choose Iowa food
purchasing program to the choose Iowa food bank program. The
part provides that to participate in the program, a farm or
business must be enrolled as a member of the choose Iowa

da/js

25/33

promotional program. The part eliminates a provision providing
that not more than $200,000 may be used by DALS to reimburse
Iowa food banks and Iowa emergency feeding organizations. The
part eliminates a provision that terminates the program on July
1, 2030. Finally, the part transfers several Code sections
including Code section 159.25, which establishes an Iowa seal
for agricultural products.
PART C —— INNOVATION AND REVITALIZATION PROGRAMS —— BILL’S
PROVISIONS. This part provides priority to a beginning
farmer applying to participate in the dairy innovation and
revitalization program. The part creates a butchery innovation
revitalization program, modeled on the dairy innovation
and revitalization program, that promotes the development,
modernization, and expansion of this state’s butchery industry.
The part also eliminates a similar program administered by the
economic development authority (Code section 15E.370).
DIVISION III —— DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND
STEWARDSHIP REGULATION —— ANIMAL HEALTH —— BACKGROUND. Code
chapter 163 authorizes DALS to regulate animal health and
specifically control infectious or contagious diseases
(disease) afflicting livestock populations (Code chapter 163).
The term “control” refers to prevention, suppression, or
eradication efforts (Code section 163.2).
DIVISION III —— ANIMAL HEALTH —— BILL’S PROVISIONS. This
division authorizes DALS to lease facilities in order to
control an infectious or contagious disease or provide for
a foreign animal disease preparedness and response effort
(Code section 162.2A). The division also provides that
notwithstanding Code chapter 22, information collected by DALS
relating to such disease is confidential, if the information
identifies the name, address, and contact information of a
person owning or caring for an animal suspected of or being
affected with a disease; or any location where an animal
suspected of or being affected with the disease has been kept.
DIVISION IV —— DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND

da/js

26/33

STEWARDSHIP REGULATION —— WEIGHTS AND MEASURES —— BACKGROUND.
DALS is authorized to regulate standard weights and measures
under a number of Code chapters, with many of its provisions
first published in the 1851 Code (Code chapters 210, 213, 214,
and 215). Generally, standards must comply with or be supplied
by the federal government or approved as being in compliance
with those established by a United States agency, the national
institute of standards and technology (NIST). Many of Iowa’s
Code provisions regulating standards provide for the inspection
of commercial weighing and measuring devices that are used
to establish size, quantity, area, or another quantitative
measurement of a commodity when sold (Code section 215.1).
DIVISION IV —— DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND
STEWARDSHIP —— REGULATION —— WEIGHTS AND MEASURES —— BILL’S
PROVISIONS. This division provides that the secretary of
agriculture may designate the bureau chief of the department’s
weights and measures bureau to act as the state metrologist
of weights and measures (Code section 213.1). The state
metrologist is authorized to cooperate with NIST. A provision
requiring all weights and measures sealed by the state
metrologist to be impressed with the word “Iowa” is eliminated.
The division provides that DALS is no longer required to
inspect all commercial weighing and measuring devices unless
it receives a complaint (Code section 215.1A). In lieu of
an inspection, DALS may order the owner of the device or a
service agency that installed, serviced, or repaired the
device, to deliver to DALS one or more of the service agency’s
most recent test reports documenting the device’s accuracy.
Several exceptions apply that require the inspection of a
device including a motor fuel pump (Code section 214.11), a
moisture-measuring device (Code section 215A.2), and a charging
station (Code section 452A.41). The division makes several
changes to enhance the Code’s readability including updating
or correcting references to Code chapter 215. The division
eliminates a provision that requires DALS to conduct a test

da/js

27/33

of a measuring device based on a request of any person (Code
section 213.3) and a provision requiring a city to pay for
expenses directly incurred in furnishing a city with standards
(Code section 213.7).
DIVISION V —— DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP
REGULATION —— GRAIN MARKETING —— BACKGROUND. DALS regulates
grain marketing transactions under three interrelated
Code chapters. The first two Code chapters regulate grain
marketers, including Code chapter 203 providing for the
regulation of a grain dealer purchasing grain from a seller and
Code chapter 203C providing for the regulation of a warehouse
operator storing grain for a depositor. Code chapter 203D
establishes the grain depositors and sellers indemnity fund
(indemnity fund) created to indemnify a seller or depositor
against a financial loss due to the management of the grain by
grain dealer or warehouse operator.
Under Code chapter 203, in a cash sale transaction, a grain
dealer must pay the seller the purchase price for grain upon
the grain’s delivery or upon demand for payment by the seller
(Code section 203.8). Delivery occurs when title to and
possession of the grain is transferred to the grain dealer or
another person in accordance with the terms of the contract
(Code section 203.8). One special type of sale is the use
of a credit-sale contract in which a grain dealer enters a
contract with a seller for the sale of grain and delivery of
the grain has occurred but payment has not been made either
because the price has not been agreed to (a deferred-pricing
contract) or the price has been agreed to but payment is to
be made more than 30 days later (a deferred-payment contract)
(Code section 203.15). Under both Code chapters 203 and
203C, DALS regulates a grain dealer and warehouse operator by
issuing a license and conducting inspections of their business
operations. A grain dealer or warehouse operator must be
issued either a class 1 or class 2 license based on the size
of the business operation with a class 1 license requiring

da/js

28/33

higher net worth requirements (Code sections 203.3 and 203C.6).
However, a class 1 license is required for a grain dealer who
enters into a credit-sale contract regardless of the size of
the grain dealer’s operation. A class 1 or class 2 licensee
must annually submit to DALS a financial statement accompanied
by an unqualified opinion based upon an audit performed by a
certified public accountant (CPA) licensed in this state. In
2025, the general assembly enacted 2025 Iowa Acts, chapter 105
(2025 Act), which eliminated provisions that allowed a licensed
grain dealer or licensed grain warehouse operator to submit a
financial statement accompanied by a report of a state-licensed
CPA based upon a review in lieu of an unqualified opinion. The
2025 Act allowed the indemnity fund to cover a loss arising
from a deferred-payment contract (Code sections 203D.6 and
203D.6A). The 2025 Act also provided a separate process for
a seller to be indemnified for a loss resulting from the
seller having received from the grain dealer an amount from
the purchased grain that the seller was required to later pay
back to the grain dealer’s bankruptcy estate (Code section
203D.6A). A license of a grain dealer or warehouse operator
may cease due to any one of three causes, including revocation
by DALS, cancellation by the grain dealer, or the expiration
of the license by operation of law. All of these causes are
covered under Code sections 203.10 and 203C.10. Upon any of
these causes, a seller may claim the purchase price for the
sold grain, which may trigger a claim for a loss under the
indemnity fund.
DIVISION V —— DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND STEWARDSHIP
—— REGULATION —— GRAIN MARKETING —— BILL’S PROVISIONS. Parts A
and B of this division amend Code sections 203.3 and 203C.6A by
allowing a grain dealer (except a grain dealer entering into a
credit-sale contract) or a warehouse operator to again submit a
financial statement accompanied by a report of a state-licensed
CPA based upon a review in lieu of an unqualified opinion.
Parts A and B of the division amend Code section 203.8 by

da/js

29/33

providing that unless title to grain was previously transferred
pursuant to an ordinary cash sale contract, title to grain
sold by credit-sale contract is deemed to have transferred to
the grain dealer upon two conditions: (1) the credit-sale
contract is signed by both the grain dealer and the seller
and (2) the grain dealer or another person has possession of
the grain in accordance with the terms of the credit-sale
contract. The bill provides that a claim for a loss incurred
by a seller or depositor may be triggered by the filing of a
bankruptcy petition by a grain dealer or warehouse operator.
The bill also amends a number of provisions that refer to the
revocation, cancellation, or expiration of the license by
instead referring to either Code section 203.10 or 203C.10,
which describe those types of actions. Part C of the division
amends Code section 203D.6 by providing for the indemnification
of a seller for grain purchased by a grain dealer that the
seller was required to pay back later in bankruptcy. The claim
may proceed upon a determination that an eligible repayment
claim was filed with DALS by the seller as required by statute.
Finally, part C of the division amends Code section 203D.6A
by providing for the timeliness of a repayment claim in the
case of a bankruptcy court’s default judgment. In that case,
the seller must file a claim not later than 60 days after
the court’s judgment or a settlement agreement is approved,
whichever is later.
DIVISION VI —— DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION REGULATION ——
MOTOR VEHICLES. This division provides for the regulation of
persons moving agricultural items on state highways and roads.
PART A —— MILK HAULERS —— BACKGROUND. Under Code chapter
321E, the department of transportation (DOT) and local
authorities regulate the weight of motor vehicles traveling on
a street, road, or highway, including by issuing permits (Code
section 321E.2). DOT is authorized to issue annual permits
for the operation of vehicles or combinations of vehicles
transporting fluid milk products to or from a milk plant,

da/js

30/33

receiving station, or transfer station. The weight limitation
is 96,000 pounds on primary roads and primary road extensions
in cities. A person who violates the weight provisions is
subject to a fine according to a schedule based on the number
of pounds of overload beginning at $12.
PART A —— MILK HAULERS —— BILL’S PROVISIONS. This part
increases the weight limit to 136,000 pounds. DOT is
required to adopt rules governing minimum distances for axle
configurations. The part takes effect January 1, 2027.
PART B —— IMPLEMENTS OF HUSBANDRY —— BACKGROUND. Code
section 321.457 regulates the maximum length of a motor
vehicle or combination of vehicles operated on the highways
of this state. A trailer or semitrailer cannot have an
overall length in excess of 53 feet when operating in a truck
tractor-semitrailer combination. However, a lowboy semitrailer
that is designed and exclusively used for the transportation of
construction equipment may have an overall length not in excess
of 57 feet. A person who violates the length requirement is
subject to a scheduled fine of $260 (Code section 805.8A).
PART B —— IMPLEMENTS OF HUSBANDRY —— BILL’S PROVISIONS. This
part provides that an implement of husbandry (a vehicle or
equipment used in agricultural production) has the same feet
requirement as construction equipment.
DIVISION VII —— AGRICULTURAL TOURISM —— BACKGROUND. Code
chapter 673A, referred to as the “Iowa Agricultural Tourism
Promotion Act” (Code section 673A.1), limits the liability of
certain persons involved in agricultural tourism on a farm
(agricultural tourism farm) when a cause of action by a visitor
to the farm (agricultural tourist) alleges an injury, loss, or
death due to any of the following: (1) an inherent risk of
farming associated with a farming activity, (2) the failure of
the agricultural tourist to comply with an instruction while
visiting the agricultural tourism farm, or (3) the injury,
loss, or death occurred at a place a reasonable person would
not enter, which may be based on a posted notice (Code section

da/js

31/33

673A.4).
DIVISION VII —— AGRICULTURAL TOURISM —— BILL’S PROVISIONS.
This division expands the scope of the liability protection
provided to persons engaged in agricultural tourism by amending
definitions in Code section 673A.3. The division provides that
a farm includes a tree farm, and that a farm crop includes
a plant used for energy or decoration. The division also
provides that a farm crop described as edible or ornamental
produce includes nuts, maple syrup, mushrooms, and Christmas
trees. Finally, a farm crop includes honey.
DIVISION VIII —— LAND USE —— BACKGROUND. Code chapter 335
provides for county zoning. Code section 335.27 provides that
a county zoning ordinance does not apply to land, a farm house,
farm barn, farm outbuilding, or other building or structure
that is primarily adapted for an agricultural purpose. Code
chapter 335.28 provides that a county cannot require a
conditional use permit, special use permit, special exception,
or variance for agricultural experiences on property primarily
used for agricultural production. An agricultural experience
is defined to include an agriculture-related activity, as a
secondary use in conjunction with agricultural production, on a
farm, which activity is open to the public.
DIVISION VIII —— LAND USE —— BILL’S PROVISIONS. This
division amends Code section 335.2 by providing that an
agricultural purpose includes an agricultural tourism
activity or event, value-added agricultural processing,
direct-to-consumer marketing, or other farm-based enterprise
that supports the economic viability of a farm. The division
amends Code section 335.28 by providing that an agricultural
experience also includes any of the tourism activities, such as
recreational, entertainment, dining, or celebratory events, or
short-term rental opportunities offered on a working farm, so
long as the farm’s primary use remains agricultural production.
Finally, an agricultural experience includes a fair event
conducted on a fairgrounds under the management or control of a

da/js

32/33

county or district fair or agricultural society. The division
takes effect upon enactment.

da/js

33/33
