Senate File 2189 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2189
BY COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION
(SUCCESSOR TO SF 2025)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to information required for nonresidents who
apply for vehicle registration and issuance of a certificate
of title.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 5129SV (1) 91
th/ns

S.F. 2189

Section 1. Section 321.20, subsection 1, paragraph f, Code
2026, is amended to read as follows:
f. (1) If Except as provided in subparagraph (2), if the
vehicle is owned by a nonresident but is subject to issuance of
an Iowa certificate of title or registration, the application
shall must also contain the full legal name, Iowa driver’s
license number or Iowa nonoperator’s identification card
number, date of birth, bona fide residence, and mailing address
of the primary user of the vehicle. If the primary user is a
firm, association, or corporation, the application shall must
contain the bona fide business address and federal employer
identification number of the primary user. The primary user’s
name and address shall not be printed on the registration
receipt or the certificate of title.
(2) If the vehicle is owned by a nonresident who owns real
property in this state, the vehicle is used primarily at the
Iowa property, and the vehicle is subject to issuance of an
Iowa certificate of title or registration, the application must
include reasonable proof, as determined by the department, that
the nonresident owns the property, and may contain the owner’s
driver’s license number or nonoperator’s identification card
number issued by another state in lieu of both the primary
user’s information required under subparagraph (1) and the
owner’s Iowa driver’s license number or Iowa nonoperator’s
identification card number required under paragraph “a”. The
department shall adopt rules regarding acceptable proof of
ownership of the property required under this subparagraph.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

Current law requires an owner of a vehicle to apply for
registration and issuance of a certificate of title if the
vehicle is required to be registered. The application must
include information about the owner, the vehicle, nonowner
interests in the vehicle, if applicable, the amount of the fee

LSB 5129SV (1) 91
th/ns

1/2

S.F. 2189

for new registration, and other information as may reasonably
be required by the department of transportation (DOT). In
particular, the owner’s full legal name, social security
number or Iowa driver’s license number or Iowa nonoperator’s
identification card number, date of birth, bona fide residence,
and mailing address are required.
In addition, if the vehicle is owned by a nonresident
but still subject to issuance of a certificate of title
or registration in Iowa, the application must also contain
the full legal name, Iowa driver’s license number or Iowa
nonoperator’s identification card number, date of birth, bona
fide residence, and mailing address of the primary user of the
vehicle.
This bill provides for alternative application information
required for certain nonresidents. Nonresidents who own real
property in Iowa that are registering a vehicle that is used
primarily at that property may instead apply using the owner’s
driver’s license number or nonoperator’s identification card
number issued by another state in lieu of both the primary
user’s information and the Iowa’s driver’s license number or
nonoperator’s identification card number required under current
law. A nonresident who applies for registration and issuance
of a certificate of title under the bill is required to provide
reasonable proof that the nonresident owns such property in
Iowa. The DOT must adopt rules regarding acceptable proof of
property ownership.

LSB 5129SV (1) 91
th/ns

2/2
