SECOND REGULAR SESSION

SENATE BILL NO. 1221
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY SENATOR BRATTIN.
5152S.01I

KRISTINA MARTIN, Secretary

AN ACT
To repeal section 188.035, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof one new section relating to abortion.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:

Section A.

Section 188.035, RSMo, is repealed and one new

section enacted in lieu thereof, to be known as section 188.035,

to read as follows:

188.035.

[Whoever, with intent to do so, shall take

the life of a child aborted alive, shall be guilty of murder

of the second degree.] 1.

may be cited as the "Born-Alive Abortion Survivors

Protection Act".

2.

This section shall be known and

A child born alive during or after an abortion or

an attempted abortion shall have all the rights, privileges,

and immunities available to other persons, citizens, and

residents of this state, including any other liveborn child.

3.

Any health care provider licensed, registered, or

certified in this state who is present at the time a child

is born alive during or after an abortion or attempted

abortion shall:

(1)

Exercise the same degree of professional skill,

care, and diligence to preserve the life and health of the

child as a reasonably diligent and conscientious health care

provider would render to any other child born alive at the

same gestational age or with the same fetal weight.

This

EXPLANATION-Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in this bill is not enacted
and is intended to be omitted in the law.

shall include, but not be limited to, never abandoning the

child, but instead determining whether to initiate

resuscitation, to continue treatment, or to provide comfort

and palliative care; and

(2)

If necessary, ensure that the child born alive is

immediately transported and admitted to a hospital following

the exercise of skill, care, and diligence required under

subdivision (1) of this subsection.

4.

In addition to any criminal or administrative

liability which may be incurred, a person shall be civilly

liable when he or she:

(1)

Knowingly, recklessly, or negligently causes the

death of a child who is born alive during or after an

abortion or an attempted abortion;

(2)

Knowingly fails to comply with any of the

provisions of subsection 3 of this section if the person is

a health care provider subject to such provisions;

(3)

Knowingly performs or induces, or attempts to

perform or induce, an unlawful abortion upon another person;
(4)

Knowingly aids or abets another person to undergo

a self-induced abortion or attempted self-induced abortion

or to procure an unlawful abortion or attempted unlawful

abortion;

(5)

Knowingly, recklessly, or negligently supplies or

makes available any instrument, device, medicine, drug, or

any other means or substance for another person to undergo a

self-induced abortion or attempted self-induced abortion or

to procure an unlawful abortion or attempted unlawful

abortion; or

(6)

Knowingly incites, solicits, or otherwise uses

speech or writing as an integral part of conduct in

violation of a valid criminal statute to influence another

person to undergo a self-induced abortion or attempted self-

induced abortion or to procure an unlawful abortion or

attempted unlawful abortion.

5.

If injury or death arises out of or results from

any circumstance under subsection 4 of this section to any

of the following persons, including:

(1)

A person upon whom the unlawful abortion or

attempted unlawful abortion was performed or induced;
(2)

A person who underwent a self-induced abortion or

attempted self-induced abortion or who procured an unlawful

abortion or attempted unlawful abortion;

(3)

A child who was born alive during or after an

abortion or attempted abortion; or
(4)

An unborn child;

then a cause of action for personal injury, bodily injury,

or wrongful death may be brought.

wrongful death, the spouse, partner, parents, and children

of the deceased person, child, or unborn child shall be

entitled to bring the action.

may be recovered for, including, but not limited to, any

damages described in chapters 537 and 538 that are

applicable; loss of future fertility; loss of love and

companionship of the spouse, partner, parent, child, or

unborn child; and for injury to or destruction of the

spouse, partner, parent, child, or unborn child relationship

in such amount as, under all the circumstances of the case,

may be just.

plaintiff reasonable attorney's fees and litigation costs,

including, but not limited to, expert witness fees and

expenses as part of the costs.

permitted to plead or prove as a defense that the plaintiff

In a cause of action for

Damages for injury or death

The court shall also award a prevailing

A defendant shall not be

or deceased person assumed the risk of undergoing, or

consented to undergo, a self-induced abortion or attempted

self-induced abortion or that the plaintiff or deceased

person assumed the risk of procuring, or consented to

procure, an unlawful abortion or attempted unlawful

abortion.

consented to undergo a self-induced abortion or attempted

self-induced abortion or to procure an unlawful abortion or

attempted unlawful abortion shall not, in and of itself, be

considered evidence of contributory or comparative

negligence.

parties that is related to undergoing a self-induced

abortion or attempted self-induced abortion or to procuring

an unlawful abortion or attempted unlawful abortion shall be

against public policy and shall be void.

6.

The fact that a plaintiff or deceased person

Any exculpatory agreement between or among

No person shall maintain a cause of action or

receive an award of damages under this section if such

person engaged in criminal conduct, or in domestic violence

or sexual assault, as defined in section 455.010, that

caused the pregnancy in which another person was injured or

died as the result of an abortion or attempted abortion.

person shall maintain a cause of action or receive an award

of damages under this section if he or she is a family or

household member, as defined in section 455.010, who aided

or abetted such person who engaged in criminal conduct, or

in domestic violence or sexual assault, as defined in

section 455.010, that caused the pregnancy in which another

person was injured or died as the result of an abortion or

attempted abortion.

7.

No

The provisions of this section shall be applied,

interpreted, and construed in a manner consistent with the

Constitution of the United States and the constitution of

this state.

✓
