SB174

3P7GFZV-1

By Senator Albritton

RFD: Transportation and Energy

First Read: 20-Jan-26

Page 0

3P7GFZV-1 01/20/2026 ZAK (L)ZAK 2025-2788

SYNOPSIS:

This bill would authorize the State Oil and Gas

Board to allow an oil or gas well to be converted into

an alternative energy facility.

This bill would authorize the board to

amalgamate rights to alternative energy resources under

certain circumstances.

This bill would provide specifically for active
and inactive facilities.
This bill would authorize the board to adopt

rules and set fees for the conversion and operation of

facilities.

This bill would also provide required conduct of
facility operators.
Under existing law, the Commissioner of

Conservation and Natural Resources may lease lands

under the jurisdiction of the department for the

exploration, development, and production of oil, gas,

and other minerals.

This bill would add to the purposes for which

the commissioner may lease these lands the exploration,

development, and production of other energy sources and

related uses.

This bill would also authorize the commissioner
to modify the renewal and extension terms of these
Page 1

leases.

A BILL

TO BE ENTITLED

AN ACT

Relating to natural resources; to authorize the State

Oil and Gas Board to regulate alternative energy wells and

associated operations and facilities, to adopt rules for

regulation of the operation and abandonment of alternative

energy wells and associated operations, to set fees and

charges to defray expenses of the board in relation to

regulation of alternative energy operations, to allow an oil

or gas well and associated infrastructure to be converted into

an alternative energy facility, to amalgamate alternative

energy rights for an alternative energy facility under certain

circumstances; to require alternative energy facility

operators to adhere to certain conduct; to amend Section

9-17-60, Code of Alabama 1975, to add the exploration and

production of energy sources and related uses to the purposes

for which the Commissioner of Conservation and Natural

Resources may lease state lands; and to authorize the

commissioner to modify such leases.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA:

Section 1. (a) For purposes of this section, the
following terms have the following meanings:
(1) ALTERNATIVE ENERGY FACILITY or FACILITY. An
Page 2

alternative energy well and associated infrastructure used for

developing, producing, or supporting alternative energy

resources.

(2) ALTERNATIVE ENERGY WELL. A well that has been

permitted pursuant to the board's authorization to produce or

support the production of alternative energy resources.

(3) ALTERNATIVE ENERGY RESOURCES.

a. The earth's natural heat and the energy, in whatever

form, which is below the earth's surface and which is present

in, results from, or is created by, or which may be extracted

from, the earth's natural heat.

b. The term includes:

1. All products of geothermal processes and byproducts

derived therefrom such as indigenous steam, hot water, and hot

brines;

2. Steam, gases, hot water, and hot brines resulting

from water, gas, or other fluids artificially introduced into

geothermal formations;

3. Heat or other associated energy found in geothermal
formations; and
4. Other forms of energy, energy generation, energy

capture, energy storage, and related uses, including

hydropower derived from natural underground water flows or

from injecting water into lower pressure reservoirs with water

processed at the surface or by using the energy potential

between two subsurface formations within a wellbore.

c. The term does not include the heating and cooling
capacity of the earth which may be used for heating and
Page 3

cooling buildings through an on-site heat pump or similar

on-site system.

(b)(1) The State Oil and Gas Board, after providing

notice and a public hearing, may authorize the development and

operation of an alternative energy facility or the conversion

of an existing oil and gas well and associated infrastructure

into an alternative energy facility.

(2) As determined by rule of the board, an applicant

seeking approval to operate an alternative energy facility

shall submit a petition fee, a well permit fee, and financial

security instruments specific to the proposed uses of the

alternative energy facility.

(c) An alternative energy facility operator shall do
all of the following:
(1) Adhere to all rules adopted by the board relating
to alternative energy wells and facilities.
(2) Make a good faith effort to obtain the consent of

all persons that own the facility's alternative energy

resources.

(3) Obtain the consent of persons that own not less

than 66 and two-thirds percent of the facility's alternative

energy resources.

(4) Upon an order of the board to amalgamate pursuant

to subsection (d), compensate all nonconsenting owners on

terms deemed equitable and reasonable by the board.

(5) Employ commercially reasonable efforts to limit the

adverse impacts to surface uses of lands owned by the

nonconsenting owners of the alternative energy resources of
Page 4

the facility.
(6) If seeking approval to operate a facility within

the Blue Creek or Mary Lee coal seams in Jefferson,

Tuscaloosa, or Walker Counties, or within a 10-mile radius of

any coal mine operation, obtain the written consent of a coal

mine operator and mineral owner with an operation or mineral

interest in these seams or within such a radius, provided

consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

(d) Upon an alternative energy facility operator

obtaining the consent of persons that own not less than 66 and

two-thirds percent of a facility's alternative energy

resources, the board, after providing notice and a public

hearing, may enter an order to amalgamate and pool the

alternative energy resources owned by nonconsenting owners

into the facility.

(e)(1) The board shall require the owner or operator of

an alternative energy facility that has ceased alternative

energy production for 12 months or more to properly plug and

abandon the facility and take any other appropriate action as

deemed necessary by the board. When completed, the facility

shall be deemed abandoned.

(2) Upon the board's order approving the conversion of

an oil and gas well and associated infrastructure into an

alternative energy facility, the approved well shall not be

considered an inactive or abandoned oil or gas well.

(f) The board may adopt rules to administer this

section, including regulating the operation and abandonment of

alternative energy facilities and associated operations.
Page 5

(g) The board may set fees and charges to defray

expenses incurred by the board in regulating alternative

energy facilities pursuant to this section. All well permit

fees, filing fees for petitions, and other fees paid to the

State Treasurer pursuant to this section shall be paid into

the Alabama State Oil and Gas Board Special Fund established

by Section 9-17-24, Code of Alabama 1975, and disbursed by the

State Treasurer upon warrants drawn by the state Comptroller

for the purpose of defraying expenses incurred by the board in

the performance of its duties.

Section 2. Section 9-17-60, Code of Alabama 1975, is
amended to read as follows:

"§9-17-60

(a) The Commissioner of Conservation and Natural

Resources, on behalf of the state, is hereby authorized to

lease any lands or interest therein under the jurisdiction of

the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources for the

exploration, development, and production of oil, gas, and

other minerals, energy sources and related uses, or any one or

more of them, on, in, and under such lands.

(b) The term "energy sources and related uses" includes

but is not limited to energy generation, energy capture,

energy storage, and transmission of geothermal energy, solar

energy, and hydropower.

(c) The commissioner may modify the renewal or

extension terms of a lease entered into pursuant to subsection

(a). If the lease under consideration is an existing lease

authorized under subsection (a), the commissioner’s actions
Page 6

and negotiations shall be exempt from the requirements of

Section 9-17-65. This subsection shall not be construed to

authorize the commissioner to sell any lands."

Section 3. This act shall become effective immediately.

Page 7
