Senate Bill 420
By: Senators Echols of the 49th, Anderson of the 24th, Gooch of the 51st, Anavitarte of the
31st, Still of the 48th and others
AS PASSED
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT

To amend Code Section 27-2-23 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to

license, permit, tag, and stamp fees, so as to provide for fees for reef and migratory fish

endorsements; to provide for recreational and commercial fishing; to provide for reporting

of information; to provide for retention of certain fees; to amend Code Section 12-2-2 of the

Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to Environmental Protection Division, appeal

procedures generally, permit applications, and inspections, Code Section 27-1-39 of the

Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to rules and regulations used to establish

criminal violations, and Code Section 52-7-26 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated,

relating to penalty, respectively, so as to revise effective dates; to provide for related matters;

to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

PART I

SECTION 1-1.

Code Section 27-2-23 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to license, permit,

tag, and stamp fees, is amended by adding new subparagraphs to paragraph (4), revising

paragraph (11), and adding a new paragraph to read as follows:

"(K) Resident reef/migratory fish

endorsement

(L) Nonresident reef/migratory fish

endorsement

Annual

10.00

Annual

20.00"

"(11) For wildlife that may be legally taken by recreational or commercial fishing gear

as authorized in this title or by board rule, the board may designate which species of

wildlife or species grouping of wildlife require a recreational or commercial fishing

species endorsement for a fee shown in subparagraphs (K) and (L) of paragraph (4) or

subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (6) of this Code section in addition to the

required recreational or commercial fishing license. Each species or group of species so

designated shall require a separate recreational or commercial fishing species

endorsement. Each person who holds an endorsement pursuant to the provisions of this

Code section shall report such information as required by the department at the times and

in the manner the board provides by rule or regulation."

"(12.1) Any fees collected pursuant to subparagraphs (K) and (L) of paragraph (4) of this

Code section shall be retained by the department pursuant to Code Section 45-12-92.1."

PART II

SECTION 2-1.

Code Section 12-2-2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to Environmental

Protection Division, appeal procedures generally, permit applications, and inspections, is

amended by revising paragraph (5) of subsection (c) as follows:

"(5) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, for purposes of establishing criminal

violations of the standards, rules, and regulations promulgated by the Board of Natural

Resources as provided in this title, the term 'standards, rules, and regulations' shall mean

those standards, rules, and regulations of the Board of Natural Resources in force and

effect on January 1, 2025 2026."

SECTION 2-2.

Code Section 27-1-39 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to rules and

regulations used to establish criminal violations, is amended as follows:

"27-1-39.

Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, for purposes of establishing criminal

violations of the rules and regulations promulgated by the Board of Natural Resources as

provided in this title, the term 'rules and regulations' means those rules and regulations of

the Board of Natural Resources in force and effect on January 1, 2025 2026."

SECTION 2-3.

Code Section 52-7-26 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to penalty, is

amended by revising subsection (a) as follows:

"(a) Except as otherwise provided in this article, any person who violates this article or any

rule or regulation promulgated hereunder shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. For purposes

of establishing criminal violations of the rules and regulations promulgated by the board

as provided in this article, the term 'rules and regulations' means those rules and regulations

of the board in force and effect on January 1, 2025 2026."

PART III

SECTION 3-1.

All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
