Senate File 2447 - Introduced
SENATE FILE 2447
BY COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE
(SUCCESSOR TO SF 376)

A BILL FOR

An Act relating to the siting and operation of renewable
electric power generating facilities.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF IOWA:

TLSB 2223SV (1) 91
sb/js

Section 1. Section 476.53A, Code 2025, is amended to read
as follows:
476.53A Renewable electric power generation.
1. It is the intent of the general assembly to encourage
the development of renewable electric power generation. It
is also the intent of the general assembly to encourage the
use of renewable power to meet local electric needs and the
development of transmission capacity to export wind excess
power generated in Iowa.
2. To implement the intent of the general assembly and
promote uniformity, the standards in this section shall
apply to the approval by local authorities of all wind energy
conversion facilities proposed after January 1, 2025.
3. For purposes of this section, unless the context
otherwise requires:
a. “Abutting dwelling” means an occupied building or
structure used primarily for human habitation that is located
on nonparticipating property.
b. “Battery energy storage system” means an electrochemical
device that charges, or collects, energy from the grid or a
generation facility, stores that energy, and then discharges
that energy at a later time to provide electricity or other
grid services.
c. “Community building” means any one or more of the
following buildings that is existing and occupied on the date
that the application for approval, rezoning, or a special or
conditional use permit is filed with the county: a school, a
place of worship, a day care facility, a public library, or a
community center.
d. “Local authority” means a city as defined in section
362.2 or a county as provided in chapter 331.
e. “Nonparticipating property” means any real property owned
by a person who has not granted written permission, consent,
an easement, or other similar agreement pertaining to a wind
energy conversion facility on such property.

sb/js

1/12

f. “Public road right-of-way” means the same as defined in
section 306.3.
g. “Railroad right-of-way” means the same as defined in
section 476.27.
h. “Renewable electric power generation facility” means
a battery energy storage system, a solar energy conversion
facility, or a wind energy conversion facility.
i. “Repowering” means the same as defined in section 476.53.
j. “Solar energy conversion facility” means a solar energy
conversion facility, as defined in section 476C.1, that has
a nameplate generating capacity greater than one hundred
kilowatts.
k. “Unoccupied structure” means a building or structure that
is not occupied or used primarily for human habitation at the
time of siting.
l. “Wind energy conversion facility” or “facility” means a
wind energy conversion facility, as defined in section 476C.1,
or a wind turbine that is part of a wind energy conversion
system, that has a nameplate generating capacity greater than
one hundred kilowatts.
4. a. A local authority may determine setback standards
for wind energy conversion facilities that, notwithstanding any
statute or regulation to the contrary, shall be no greater than
and shall not include any setback requirements beyond those in
this subsection:
(1) The facility shall be sited three times the total
height of a wind energy conversion facility to be constructed
on a proposed facility from any existing abutting dwelling or
community building.
(2) The facility shall be sited one and one-tenth times
the total height of a wind energy conversion facility to
be constructed on a proposed facility from any existing
nonparticipating property.
(3) The facility shall be sited one and one-tenth times
the total height of a wind energy conversion facility to be

sb/js

2/12

constructed on a proposed facility from any existing overhead
utility line, electric substation, public road right-of-way,
railroad right-of-way, or unoccupied structure.
(4) Each wind turbine shall not exceed the height allowed
under the determination of no hazard for that turbine from the
federal aviation administration obstruction evaluation under
14 C.F.R. pt. 77.
b. For purposes of this subsection, the facility site
distance shall be measured from the center of the wind energy
conversion facility foundation to the nearest point of the
abutting dwelling, community building, nonparticipating
property, overhead utility line, electric substation, public
road right-of-way, railroad right-of-way, or unoccupied
structure.
c. For purposes of this subsection, the total height of
a wind energy conversion facility shall be measured as the
distance from ground level to the tip of the wind energy
conversion facility’s blade at its highest vertical point.
5. A local authority may determine setback standards
for solar energy conversion facilities. For purposes of
this subsection, distance shall be measured from the nearest
aboveground point of a solar facility, not including any
fencing, to the nearest point of the abutting dwelling,
overhead utility line, electric substation, nonparticipating
property line, public road right-of-way, railroad right-of-way,
or unoccupied structure. The standards shall be no greater
than:
a. Fifty feet from the near edge of any existing
nonparticipating property line or one hundred feet from any
existing abutting dwelling or community building, whichever is
greater.
b. Fifty feet from any existing overhead utility line,
substation, public road right-of-way, or railroad right-of-way.
6. A local authority may determine setback standards
for battery energy storage systems. For purposes of this

sb/js

3/12

subsection, distance shall be measured from the nearest storage
container edge to the nearest point of the abutting dwelling,
overhead utility line, electric substation, nonparticipating
property line, public road right-of-way, railroad right-of-way,
or unoccupied structure. The standards shall be no greater
than:
a. Fifty feet from any existing participating property line.
b. One hundred feet from any existing nonparticipating
property line or any existing abutting dwelling or community
building.
c. Fifty feet from any existing nonassociated transmission,
substation, or distribution lines.
d. Fifty feet from any public road right-of-way or railroad
right-of-way.
7. A local authority may only implement the following
additional standards and only to the extent specified in this
subsection:
a. A shadow flicker standard that is no more restrictive
than thirty hours per year under planned operating conditions
as indicated by industry standard computer modeling measured
from an abutting dwelling or community building.
b. A sound limitation that is no more restrictive than
a maximum forty-seven decibel sound from the wind energy
conversion facility as measured at an existing abutting
dwelling or community building. Decibel modeling shall use the
A-weighted scale as designed by the American national standards
institute. Sound modeling shall be completed by a professional
board-certified by the institute of noise control engineering,
or an appropriately licensed professional engineer.
c. A requirement that the applicant of a proposed wind
energy conversion facility shall agree to repair or replace any
damaged drainage infrastructure if directly attributable to the
construction or operation of the facility.
d. A requirement that renewable electric power generation
facilities meet all applicable national electric safety code

sb/js

4/12

and international building code requirements.
e. A requirement that renewable electric power generation
facilities meet all applicable provisions of national fire
protection association standard 855.
f. A requirement that renewable electric power generation
facilities for fencing are no more restrictive than the
requirement issued by the national electric safety code.
g. A requirement for solar energy conversion facilities
to maintain appropriate ground cover within the solar energy
conversion facility’s fence line throughout the life of the
facility to minimize erosion.
h. A height requirement for solar energy conversion
facilities for a minimum one and one-half feet panel height
from the ground, exclusive of supporting infrastructure, with
no additional or higher minimum height requirements for the
solar energy conversion facility.
8. A local authority must provide a process for the owner of
any abutting dwelling, nonparticipating property, or community
building to waive the standards in this section or those
adopted by a local authority.
9. A local authority must use reasonable estimates of the
cost of approving an application for a facility, which shall
not exceed one thousand dollars per wind energy conversion
system, solar energy conversion system, or battery energy
storage system. A local authority may not require the facility
owner to pay costs, fees, or charges for administrative or road
work that is not specifically and uniquely attributable to the
approval and construction of the facility.
10. A local authority shall not prohibit or regulate testing
activities undertaken by a wind energy conversion facility
owner for purposes of determining the suitability of the
placement of a wind energy conversion facility.
11. Ordinances, limitations, or other requirements imposed
after an application for approval, rezoning, or a special
or conditional use permit for a renewable electric power

sb/js

5/12

generation facility has been submitted or previously approved
shall not be construed to limit or impair the construction,
operation, or maintenance of the renewable electric power
generation facility.
12. A local authority shall not prohibit an affected
landowner or other entity from waiving any requirements under
this section by the conveyance of an easement or other property
interest.
13. a. A local authority may require the owner of the
proposed renewable electric power generation facility to file
with the county recorder of the county or counties in which
the proposed facility will be located a decommissioning plan
outlining measures that will be taken to return the land to
a reasonably similar state to the condition that existed
before construction of the renewable electric power generation
facility. Removal requirements of underground project
infrastructure may not exceed a maximum depth of four feet. If
the proposed facility will be located within two miles of the
corporate limits of a city, the owner of the proposed facility
may also be required to file the plan with the city clerk. A
local authority shall not require a revision or amendment of
a decommissioning plan.
b. A local authority may require the owner to provide
in the decommissioning plan proof of financial assurance to
fund decommissioning efforts, which assurance is calculated
by an independent third party as the estimated costs of
decommissioning, inclusive of net salvage value, no earlier
than the following schedule:
(1) Five percent of determined decommissioning costs
committed by the initial commercial operation date.
(2) One hundred percent of determined decommissioning costs
committed by the fifteenth year of commercial operation.
c. After the fifteenth year of commercial operation, the
owner of the renewable electric power generation facility
may reestimate the cost of decommissioning, inclusive of net

sb/js

6/12

salvage value, using an independent third party for the purpose
of redetermining the amount required for financial assurance.
d. Evidence of financial security may be in the form of a
surety bond, collateral bond, parent guaranty, cash, cashier’s
check, certificate of deposit, bank joint custody receipt, or
other approved negotiable instrument.
e. This subsection shall not apply to a renewable electric
power generation facility owned or operated by a public utility
regulated by the Iowa utilities commission.
14. A renewable electric power generation facility shall be
presumed abandoned if the facility fails to operate for more
than twenty-four consecutive months without generating energy,
excluding repowering or required maintenance events or force
majeure events outside of the owner’s control. The owner of
the abandoned facility shall be responsible for the removal of
the facility, including the removal of infrastructure four feet
below ground level and subject to any reasonable additional
conditions of a decommissioning plan filed with the local
authority.
15. a. This section shall not apply to a wind energy
conversion facility that has a nameplate capacity of
twenty-five or more megawatts on any single gathering line
and if the facility has applied for certification pursuant to
chapter 476A.
b. This section shall not apply to a renewable electric
power generation facility that is operating or has submitted
an application for the issuance of permits on or before the
effective date of this Act.
c. This section shall not apply to the repowering of a wind
energy conversion facility existing on or before January 1,
2025.
d. This section shall not apply to the repowering of a
renewable electric power generation facility, which is not
already excluded under paragraph “c”, existing on or before
January 1, 2025, provided that the repowering does not require

sb/js

7/12

the issuance of any new permits, or amendments to existing
permits, from a local authority. This section shall apply
to the repowering of a renewable electric power generation
facility existing on or before January 1, 2025, when such
repowering requires the issuance of any new permits, or
amendments to existing permits, from a local authority.
16. a. A local authority within one hundred twenty calendar
days of receiving an application requesting approval, rezoning,
or a special or conditional use permit for a renewable electric
power generation facility, or modification of an approved
siting, rezoning, or special or conditional use permit, shall
comply with the following provisions:
(1) Review the application for conformity with applicable
local zoning regulations, building permit requirements, and
consistency with this chapter. An application is deemed to
be complete unless the local authority notifies the applicant
in writing, within thirty calendar days of submission of the
application, specifying the deficiencies in the application
that, if cured, would make the application complete. The local
authority’s time frame to review the application is tolled
beginning the date the notice is sent. The local authority’s
time frame of one hundred twenty days for review of the
application shall continue running when the applicant cures the
specified deficiencies. Following the applicant’s supplemental
submission, the local authority has ten days to notify the
applicant if the supplemental submission did not provide the
information identified in the original notice that specified
deficiencies in the application. The local authority’s time
frame of one hundred twenty days to review the application
is tolled in the case of second or subsequent notices in
conformance with this subparagraph. The local authority
shall not include deficiencies in a second or subsequent
notice that were not delineated in the original notice. The
local authority’s time frame for review does not toll if the
local authority requests information regarding any of the

sb/js

8/12

considerations a local authority may not consider according to
this section.
(2) Make its final decision to approve or disapprove the
application.
(3) Advise the applicant in writing of its final decision.
b. A local authority must approve, approve with
modifications, or deny an application requesting approval,
rezoning, or a special or conditional use permit for a
renewable electric power generation facility or modification
of an approved rezoning or special or conditional use permit
within one hundred twenty days of the submission of an
application.
c. Denial of an application for approval, rezoning, or a
special or conditional use permit by a local authority must
be based on substantial evidence in the record of material
noncompliance with one or more specific provisions of this
section or regulations of local authorities that are not
inconsistent with this section. An appeal of such a denial by
an adversely affected party may be brought by certiorari as
provided in sections 335.18 and 335.19. The reviewing court
shall expedite the proceeding to the extent practicable.
17. a. A local authority shall not adopt regulations
that explicitly or implicitly disallow a renewable electric
power generation facility from being developed or operated
in any district zoned to allow agricultural or industrial
use. A local authority may not prohibit or otherwise limit
renewable electric power generation facility development
based on corn suitability rating as calculated using the
methodology recognized by the Iowa state university of science
and technology. A local authority may not limit the size of
any specific project or create caps on projects based on total
land mass within the local jurisdiction.
b. A local authority may place one temporary moratorium
for up to six months on the installation of a wind energy
conversion facility for the purpose of adopting new regulations

sb/js

9/12

that are consistent with this section. All new, revised,
or amended ordinances or regulations pertaining to solar or
solar energy conversion facilities shall only be prospectively
applied.
c. Nothing in this section requires a local authority
to adopt standards for approval of renewable electric power
generation facilities.
Sec. 2. COMPLIANCE BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES. If any local
authority has a standard in effect on or after the effective
date of this Act that does not comply with the provisions in
this Act, the local authority must amend the standard to comply
with this Act by December 31, 2025.
EXPLANATION

The inclusion of this explanation does not constitute agreement with
the explanation’s substance by the members of the general assembly.

This bill relates to siting and operation of certain
renewable electric power generation facilities.
The bill creates standard-making ability for local
authorities approving a renewable electric power generation
facility (facility) proposed after January 1, 2025.
The bill sets guidelines for a local authority to implement
a facility setback standard, which shall include a facility’s
distance from specified existing buildings based on the
facility’s height. The local authority must include a process
for an owner of an abutting dwelling, nonparticipating
property, or community building to waive the setback standards.
The bill includes additional standards a local authority
may implement including shadow flicker standards, sound
limitations, a requirement that an applicant for a proposed
facility shall agree to repair any damages caused by the
facility, wind turbine height limitations, electric code
and building code standards, fire protection standards,
fencing limitations, ground cover standards, and solar energy
conversion facility panel height requirements.
The bill requires a local authority to utilize reasonable

sb/js

10/12

estimates for application approval costs and prohibits the
local authority from requiring the facility owner to pay for
administration or road work that is not directly attributable
to the approval and construction of the facility. A local
authority shall not prohibit or regulate a facility testing the
suitability of a facility placement. Any regulations enacted
after the application for a facility permit shall not limit the
construction, operation, or maintenance of that facility. A
local authority shall not prohibit an affected landowner or
other entity from waiving requirements by conveyance of an
easement.
The bill provides that a local authority may require a
facility that is not owned or operated by a public utility
regulated by the Iowa utilities commission to file a
decommissioning plan including certain measures. The local
authority is prohibited from requiring a facility to provide a
revision or amendment of a decommissioning plan.
The bill requires a facility to be presumed abandoned if
the facility has not been in operation for 24 months, with
some exceptions. The owner of the abandoned facility is
responsible for removing the facility and is subject to any
other reasonable conditions in the decommissioning plan if
applicable.
The bill shall not apply to a wind energy conversion facility
with a nameplate capacity of 25 or more megawatts and that has
applied for certification under Code chapter 476A, a facility
that is currently operating or has applied for certification
before the enactment of the bill, or the repowering of a
facility existing on or before January 1, 2025, subject to
certain conditions.
The bill requires a local authority to approve a request
by a facility if the request is in compliance with the bill.
A local authority shall issue a decision on a request by a
facility within 120 days of the request submission. The denial
of a request shall be supported by substantial evidence of

sb/js

11/12

noncompliance by the facility.
The bill prohibits a local authority from disallowing the
development of a facility in an agricultural or industrial
district. The bill provides that a local authority may not
prohibit or otherwise limit renewable electric power generation
facility development based on corn suitability rating as
calculated using the methodology recognized by the Iowa state
university of science and technology. The bill prohibits a
local authority from limiting the size of any specific project
or creating caps on projects based on total land mass within
the local jurisdiction.
The bill allows a local authority to place one temporary
moratorium for up to six months on the installation of a
wind energy conversion facility for the purpose of adopting
new regulations that are consistent with the bill. The bill
provides that all new, revised, or amended ordinances or
regulations pertaining to solar or solar energy conversion
facilities shall only be prospectively applied.
The bill expounds that a local authority is not required
to adopt standards for approval of renewable electric power
generation facilities; however, a local authority with existing
siting standards in effect on or after the effective date
of the bill that do not comply with the bill must amend the
standards to comply with the bill by December 31, 2025.

sb/js

12/12
