SECOND REGULAR SESSION

HOUSE BILL NO. 2611
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE VEIT.
6327H.01I

JOSEPH ENGLER, Chief Clerk

AN ACT
To amend chapter 701, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to battery
recycling, with penalty provisions.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:

Section A. Chapter 701, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
known as section 701.155, to read as follows:
701.155. 1. This section shall be known and may be cited as the "Lithium
Battery Recycling and Safety Act".
2. As used in this section, the following terms shall mean:
(1) "Battery", a medium-format rechargeable battery with a rating between
three hundred to two thousand watt-hours, a lithium-ion rechargeable battery that uses
lithium ions to store energy, or a portable battery that can be carried by hand and is
used to charge or operate electronic devices. A "Battery" does not mean:
(a) A battery contained within a medical device;
(b) A battery that contains an electrolyte as a free liquid;
(c) A lead-acid battery of any size;
(d) A battery that is a component of a motor vehicle or intended for use
exclusively in a motor vehicle; or
(e) A battery that is not intended or designed to be removed from any product
that is manufactured, distributed, or sold in the state;
(2) "Battery recycling program" or "program", a battery recycling program
sponsored by the department where the department provides or contracts for the
transport, processing, or recycling of batteries;
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.

(3) "Collection site", any location, event, or other department-approved
collection service at which batteries are accepted into the battery recycling program;
(4) "Department", the department of natural resources;
(5) "Director", the director of the department of natural resources or the
director's designee;
(6) "Representative organization", a nonprofit organization established to
implement the battery recycling program.
3. Any person or entity engaged in the manufacture, distribution, or sale of
batteries in the state shall establish or join a representative organization. The
representative organization shall develop and submit to the director for the director's
approval a plan for the establishment of a battery recycling program no less than every
five years. The plan shall:
(1) List contact information of each person or entity engaged in the
manufacture, distribution, or sale of batteries and battery brands covered by the
program;
(2) Describe the education and communication strategies used to promote
participation in the battery recycling program;
(3) Describe the methods of funding the battery recycling program in a manner
that equitably distributes the program's costs between the members of the
representative organization;
(4) Establish battery collection rate goals for every year for the first three years
after the implementation of the program that are based on the estimated total weight of
batteries that have been sold in the state in the previous three calendar years prior to the
implementation of the program;
(5) Identify proposed battery collection service providers, including sorters,
transporters, or processors, to be used by the program for the final disposition of
batteries;
(6) Establish a goal for the number and geographic distribution of sites for the
collection of batteries;
(7) Describe how the program will compensate service providers for activities
conducted under the program including, but not limited to, collection, transportation,
and final disposition of batteries;
(8) Describe the public outreach methods used to increase the public awareness
of the program; and
(9) List any other information the department deems relevant.
4. The department shall enforce the representative organization's compliance
with the plan under subsection 3 of this section and may, by regulation or by using

existing regulations promulgated under sections 260.230, 260.240, and 260.249, establish
enforcement procedures and penalties.
5. After the program is implemented, a person or an entity shall not
manufacture, distribute, sell, or make available for sale batteries in the state unless
the person or entity participates in a battery recycling program. A person or an entity
shall not charge a point-of-sale fee to consumers to cover the costs of the battery
recycling program.
6. After the program is implemented, all batteries shall be disposed of only into
receptacles at collection sites approved by the program. A battery shall not be disposed
of into any household waste or household recycling receptacle or container.
7. A person or an entity engaged in the manufacture, distribution, or sale of
batteries shall be deemed to be in compliance with this section if on the date a battery is
offered for sale, the person or entity is listed on the department's website as being
included in the program.
8. Any person may report violations of this section to the department. If the
department finds that the person or entity engaged in the manufacture, distribution, or
sale of batteries violated provisions of this section, the department shall ask the attorney
general to commence a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction. If the court
finds that the person or entity violated provisions of this section, the court may grant
injunctive relief, damages, attorney's fees, and any other relief the court finds
appropriate.
9. By June 1, 2028, and by June first of each following year, a representative
organization shall submit an annual report to the department covering the preceding
calendar year of the battery recycling program. The report shall contain the following:
(1) An independent financial assessment of the program by a third-party
assessor, including a breakdown of the program's expenses including, but not limited to,
collection expenses, recycling expenses, and public outreach expenses;
(2) The annual weight of batteries collected under the program;
(3) The collection rate achieved under the program, including a description of
how the collection rate was calculated;
(4) A list of all facilities used in the collection, transportation, processing, or
disposition of batteries;
(5) The estimated aggregate sales of batteries sold in the state; and
(6) Any other information the department deems relevant.
10. The report under subsection 9 of this section shall be posted on the
department's website and on the websites of the representative organizations.

11. The department shall promulgate rules to implement the provisions of this
section. Any rule or portion of a rule, as that term is defined in section 536.010, that is
created under the authority delegated in this section shall become effective only if it
complies with and is subject to all of the provisions of chapter 536 and, if applicable,
section 536.028. This section and chapter 536 are nonseverable and if any of the powers
vested with the general assembly pursuant to chapter 536 to review, to delay the
effective date, or to disapprove and annul a rule are subsequently held unconstitutional,
then the grant of rulemaking authority and any rule proposed or adopted after August
28, 2026, shall be invalid and void.
✔
