Florida Senate - 2026

By Senator Brodeur

20262D__

A bill to be entitled

An act relating to the Artificial Intelligence Bill of

Rights; amending s. 287.138, F.S.; defining the term

“artificial intelligence”; prohibiting a governmental

entity from extending or renewing a contract with

specified entities, beginning on a specified date;

prohibiting a local governmental entity from taking

certain actions relating to contracting with an entity

to provide artificial intelligence technology,

software, or products unless certain requirements are

met, beginning on a specified date; prohibiting a

governmental entity from entering into a contract with

an entity for artificial intelligence technology,

software, or products under certain circumstances;

providing a directive to the Division of Law Revision;

creating part IX of ch. 501, F.S., to be entitled the

“Artificial Intelligence Bill of Rights”; creating s.

501.9981, F.S.; providing a short title; creating s.

501.9982, F.S.; providing the rights of residents

relating to the use of artificial intelligence;

authorizing residents to exercise certain rights;

providing construction; creating s. 501.9983, F.S.;

defining terms; creating s. 501.9984, F.S.; requiring

companion chatbot platforms to prohibit a minor from

becoming or being an account holder unless the minor’s

parent or guardian consents; specifying requirements

for contract formation; requiring companion chatbot

platforms to provide the minor’s parent or guardian

certain options; requiring companion chatbot platforms
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

to terminate certain accounts or identifiers and

provide certain options; requiring companion chatbot

platforms to make certain disclosures and institute

certain measures to prevent their companion chatbots

from producing or sharing materials harmful to minors;

providing that knowing or reckless violations are

deceptive or unfair trade practices or acts;

authorizing the Department of Legal Affairs to bring

actions under the Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade

Practices Act for such violations; providing civil

penalties; authorizing punitive damages under certain

circumstances; authorizing the department to grant

companion chatbot platforms a specified timeframe in

which to cure an alleged violation and to issue a

certain letter of guidance upon notification of an

alleged violation; authorizing the department to

consider certain information when making such

determination; providing applicability; authorizing

the companion chatbot platform to provide certain

information to the department in the event of an

alleged violation of certain requirements; prohibiting

the department from bringing an action against a

companion chatbot platform under certain

circumstances; authorizing the department to issue a

certain letter of guidance; authorizing the department

to bring an action against a companion chatbot

platform that fails to cure an alleged violation;

providing liability for knowing or reckless violations

of specified provisions; providing requirements for an
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

action brought pursuant to the act; providing that

certain companion chatbot platforms are subject to the

jurisdiction of state courts; providing construction;

authorizing the department to adopt rules; creating s.

501.9985, F.S.; requiring bot operators to

periodically provide a certain notification to a user;

providing applicability; authorizing the department to

bring actions under the Florida Deceptive and Unfair

Trade Practices Act for violations; providing civil

penalties; authorizing the department to grant an

operator a specified timeframe in which to cure an

alleged violation and to issue a certain letter of

guidance; authorizing the department to consider

certain information when making such determination;

authorizing the operator to provide certain

information to the department in the event of an

alleged violation of certain requirements; prohibiting

the department from bringing an action against an

operator under certain circumstances; authorizing the

department to issue a certain letter of guidance;

authorizing the department to bring an action against

an operator who fails to cure an alleged violation;

providing that certain bot operators are subject to

the jurisdiction of state courts; authorizing the

department to adopt rules; creating s. 501.9986, F.S.;

prohibiting artificial intelligence technology

companies from selling or disclosing the personal

information of users unless the information is

deidentified data; specifying that the sale or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

disclosure of information authorized by federal law is

not prohibited; requiring artificial intelligence

technology companies in possession of deidentified

data to take specified measures to ensure such data

remains deidentified; authorizing the department to

bring actions under the Florida Deceptive and Unfair

Trade Practices Act for violations; providing civil

penalties; authorizing the department to grant an

artificial intelligence technology company a specified

timeframe in which to cure an alleged violation and to

issue a certain letter of guidance; authorizing the

department to consider certain information when making

such determination; authorizing the artificial

intelligence technology company to provide certain

information to the department in the event of an

alleged violation of certain requirements; prohibiting

the department from bringing an action against an

artificial intelligence technology company under

certain circumstances; authorizing the department to

issue a certain letter of guidance; authorizing the

department to bring an action against an artificial

intelligence company that fails to cure an alleged

violation; providing that certain artificial

intelligence technology companies are subject to the

jurisdiction of state courts; authorizing the

department to adopt rules; creating s. 501.9987, F.S.;

authorizing the department to take certain

investigative and compliance actions in connection

with potential violations of specified provisions;
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

authorizing the department to adopt rules; amending s.

540.08, F.S.; defining terms; prohibiting the

commercial use of an individual’s name, image, or

likeness created through artificial intelligence

without the individual’s or an authorized individual’s

consent; providing requirements for the use of the

name, image, or likeness of deceased persons;

providing penalties for the use of the name, image, or

likeness of a servicemember; providing applicability;

conforming provisions to changes made by the act;

amending s. 1002.42, F.S.; requiring certain private

schools to comply with specified provisions; creating

s. 1006.1495, F.S.; defining terms; prohibiting an

educational entity from using or providing students

access to artificial intelligence instructional tools

before a specified grade level; providing exceptions;

requiring an educational entity to provide parents

with specified notice before providing a student with

access to an artificial intelligence instructional

tool; requiring a parent to be provided the

opportunity to opt out of a student’s use of an

artificial intelligence instructional tool; providing

requirements for such opt-out process; requiring a

school district or public school to provide certain

activities if the parent opts out of the student’s use

of an artificial intelligence instructional tool;

requiring an operator to provide student access and

simultaneous parental access to a student account for

an artificial intelligence instructional tool;
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

providing methods to satisfy certain provisions;

specifying that an operator of an educational entity

does not have to create or maintain a transcript or

record of certain student interactions on the

artificial intelligence instructional tool; providing

construction; reenacting ss. 540.10 and 743.08(1)(c),

F.S., relating to the exemption of news media from

liability and contracts entered into by minors,

respectively, to incorporate the amendment made to s.

540.08, F.S., in references thereto; providing an

effective date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

Section 1.

Present paragraphs (a) through (d) of subsection

(1) and present subsection (7) of section 287.138, Florida

Statutes, are redesignated as paragraphs (b) through (e) and

subsection (8), respectively, a new paragraph (a) is added to

subsection (1), a new subsection (7) is added to that section,

and subsection (3) of that section is amended, to read:

287.138 Contracting with entities of foreign countries of
concern prohibited.—

(1) As used in this section, the term:

(a) “Artificial intelligence” means a machine-based system

that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make

predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing real or

virtual environments.

(3)(a) Beginning July 1, 2025, a governmental entity may
not extend or renew a contract with an entity listed in
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

paragraphs (2)(a)-(c) if the contract would give such entity

access to an individual’s personal identifying information.

Beginning July 1, 2026, a governmental entity may not extend or

renew a contract with an entity listed in paragraph (7)(a),

paragraph (7)(b), or paragraph (7)(c).

(b) Beginning July 1, 2026, a governmental entity may not

accept a bid on, a proposal for, or a reply to, or enter into a

contract with, an entity to provide artificial intelligence

technology, software, or products, including as a portion or an

option to the products or services provided under the contract,

unless the entity provides the governmental entity with an

affidavit signed by an officer or a representative of the entity

under penalty of perjury attesting that the entity does not meet

any of the criteria in paragraph (7)(a), paragraph (7)(b), or

paragraph (7)(c).

(7) A governmental entity may not knowingly enter into a

contract with an entity for artificial intelligence technology,

software, or products, including as a portion or an option to

the products or services provided under the contract, if:

(a) The entity is owned by the government of a foreign
country of concern;
(b) A government of a foreign country of concern has a
controlling interest in the entity; or
(c) The entity is organized under the laws of or has its
principal place of business in a foreign country of concern.
Section 2.

The Division of Law Revision is directed to

create part IX of chapter 501, Florida Statutes, consisting of

ss. 501.9981, 501.9982, 501.9983, 501.9984, 501.9985, 501.9986,

and 501.9987, Florida Statutes, to be entitled the “Artificial
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

Intelligence Bill of Rights.”
Section 3.

Section 501.9981, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:
501.9981 Short title.—This part may be cited as the
“Artificial Intelligence Bill of Rights.”
Section 4.

Section 501.9982, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:
501.9982 Rights relating to the use of artificial
intelligence.—
(1) Residents are entitled to certain rights with respect

to the use of artificial intelligence, including, but not

limited to:

(a) The right to use artificial intelligence to improve

their own lives and the lives of family members, fellow

residents, and the world at large in accordance with the law.

(b) The right to supervise, access, limit, and control
their minor children’s use of artificial intelligence.
(c) The right to know whether they are communicating with a

human being or an artificial intelligence system, program, or

chatbot.

(d) The right to know whether artificial intelligence

technology companies are collecting personal information or

biometric data, and the right to expect artificial intelligence

technology companies to protect and deidentify that information

or data in accordance with the law.

(e) The right to pursue civil remedies authorized by law

against persons who use artificial intelligence to appropriate

the name, image, or likeness of others for commercial purposes

without their consent.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

(f) The right to be protected by law from criminal acts,

such as fraud, exploitation, identity theft, stalking, and

cyberbullying, regardless of whether artificial intelligence is

used in the commission of those acts.

(g) The right to be protected by law from criminal acts

relating to the alteration of existing images to create sexual

or lewd or lascivious images or child pornography, regardless of

whether artificial intelligence is used in the commission of

those acts.

(h) The right to know whether political advertisements,

electioneering communications, or similar advertisements were

created in whole or in part with the use of artificial

intelligence.

(i) The right to pursue civil remedies authorized by law

against others who use artificial intelligence to slander,

libel, or defame them.

(j) The right to prevent a companion chatbot from engaging

with a user as a character that is protected by federal

copyright law without the express written consent of the

copyright owner.

(k) The right to prevent a companion chatbot from engaging

with a user as a character that is a living individual without

the express written consent of that individual.

(l) The right to prevent generative artificial intelligence

from using a character that is protected by federal copyright

law without the express written consent of the copyright owner.

(2) Residents may exercise the rights described in this

section in accordance with existing law. This section may not be

construed as creating new or independent rights or entitlements.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

Section 5.

20262D__
Section 501.9983, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:

501.9983 Definitions.—As used in this part, the term:

(1) “Account holder” means an individual who opens an

account or creates a profile or is identified by the companion

chatbot platform by a unique identifier while he or she is using

or accessing the platform, if the platform knows or has reason

to believe the individual is a resident of this state.

(2) “Artificial intelligence” means a machine-based system

that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make

predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing real or

virtual environments.

(3) “Artificial intelligence technology company” means a

business or organization that produces, develops, creates,

designs, or manufactures artificial intelligence technology or

products, collects data for use in artificial intelligence

products, or implements artificial intelligence technology.

(4) “Bot” means an automated online software application in

which all or substantially all of the actions or posts of the

account are not the result of a natural person.

(5) “Companion chatbot” means an artificial intelligence

system with a natural language interface that provides adaptive,

human-like responses to user inputs and is capable of meeting a

user’s social needs by retaining information on prior

interactions or user sessions and user preferences to

personalize the interaction and facilitate ongoing engagement,

asking unprompted or unsolicited emotion-based questions that go

beyond a direct response to a user prompt, and sustaining an

ongoing dialogue personalized to the user. The term does not
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

include:
(a) A chatbot used only for customer service; a business’s

internal operational purposes, productivity and analysis; or

uses related to source information, internal research, or

technical assistance;

(b) A chatbot that is a feature of a video game or theme

park and is limited to replies related to the video game or

theme park experience and does not discuss topics related to

mental health, self-harm, or material harmful to minors or

maintain a dialogue on other topics unrelated to the video game

or theme park;

(c) A stand-alone consumer electronic device that functions

as a speaker and voice command interface, acts as a voice-

activated virtual assistant, and does not sustain a relationship

across multiple interactions or generate outputs likely to

elicit emotional responses in the user; or

(d) An artificial intelligence instructional tool, as
defined in s. 1006.1495.
(6) “Companion chatbot platform” means a platform that
allows a user to engage with companion chatbots.
(7) “Deidentified data” means data that cannot reasonably

be linked to an identified or identifiable individual or a

device linked to that individual.

(8) “Department” means the Department of Legal Affairs.

(9) “Material harmful to minors” has the same meaning as in

s. 501.1737(1).

(10) “Minor” means any person 17 years of age or younger.

(11) “Operator” means a person who owns, operates, or

otherwise makes available a bot to individuals in this state.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

(12) “Pop-up” means a visible notification on the computer,

tablet, or smartphone screen of a user which may be resolved if

the user interacts with or responds to the notification.

(13) “Resident” means an individual who has resided in this

state for more than 6 months during the preceding 12-month

period.

(14) “Theme park” has the same meaning as the term theme
park or entertainment complex as defined in s. 509.013.
(15) “User” means an individual who resides or is domiciled

in this state and who accesses an Internet website, online or

cloud-computing service, online application, or mobile

application.

(16) “Video game” means a game played on an electronic

amusement device that uses a computer, microprocessor, or

similar electronic circuitry and its own monitor, or is designed

to be used with a television set or a computer monitor, to

interact with the user of the device.

Section 6.

Section 501.9984, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:

501.9984 Companion chatbot use for minors.—

(1) A companion chatbot platform shall prohibit a minor

from becoming or being an account holder unless the minor’s

parent or guardian provides consent. If a companion chatbot

platform allows a minor to become or be an account holder, the

parties have entered into a contract.

(a) If the minor’s parent or guardian provides consent for

the minor to become an account holder or maintain an existing

account, the companion chatbot platform must allow the

consenting parent or guardian of the minor account holder to:
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

1. Receive copies of all past or present interactions
between the account holder and the companion chatbot;
2. Limit the amount of time that the account holder may
interact with the companion chatbot each day;

3. Limit the days of the week and the times during the day

when the account holder may interact with the companion chatbot;

4. Disable any of the interactions between the account

holder and third-party account holders on the companion chatbot

platform; and

5. Receive timely notifications if the account holder

expresses to the companion chatbot a desire or an intent to

engage in harm to self or others.

(b) A companion chatbot platform shall do all of the
following:

1. Terminate any account or identifier belonging to an

account holder who is a minor if the companion chatbot platform

treats or categorizes the account or identifier as belonging to

a minor for purposes of targeting content or advertising and if

the minor’s parent or guardian has not provided consent for the

minor pursuant to subsection (1). The companion chatbot platform

shall provide 90 days for the account holder to dispute the

termination. Termination must be effective upon the expiration

of the 90 days if the account holder fails to effectively

dispute the termination.

2. Allow an account holder who is a minor to request to

terminate the account or identifier. Termination must be

effective within 5 business days after the request.

3. Allow the consenting parent or guardian of an account
holder who is a minor to request that the minor’s account or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

identifier be terminated. Termination must be effective within

business days after the request.

4. Permanently delete all personal information held by the

companion chatbot platform relating to the terminated minor

account or identifier, unless state or federal law requires the

platform to maintain the information.

(2) In connection to all accounts or identifiers held by

account holders who are minors, the companion chatbot platform

shall do all of the following:

(a) Disclose to the account holder that he or she is
interacting with artificial intelligence.
(b) Provide by default a clear and conspicuous notification

to the account holder, at the beginning of companion chatbot

interactions and at least once every hour during continuing

interactions, reminding the minor to take a break and that the

companion chatbot is artificially generated and not human.

(c) Institute reasonable measures to prevent the companion

chatbot from producing or sharing materials harmful to minors or

encouraging the account holder to engage in any of the conduct

described or depicted in materials harmful to minors.

(3) A knowing or reckless violation of this section is

deemed a deceptive or unfair trade practice or act actionable

under part II of this chapter solely by the department against a

companion chatbot platform. If the department has reason to

believe that a companion chatbot platform is in violation of

this section, the department, as the enforcing authority, may

bring an action against such platform for a deceptive or unfair

trade practice or act. In addition to other remedies under part

II of this chapter, the department may collect a civil penalty
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

of up to $50,000 per violation and reasonable attorney fees and

court costs. If the companion chatbot platform’s failure to

comply with this section is part of a consistent pattern of

knowing or reckless conduct, punitive damages may be assessed

against the companion chatbot platform.

(4)(a) After the department has notified a companion

chatbot platform in writing of an alleged violation, the

department may grant the companion chatbot platform 45 calendar

days to cure the alleged violation and may issue a letter of

guidance stating that the companion chatbot platform will not be

offered another 45-calendar-day cure period for any future

violations of this section. The department may consider the

number and frequency of violations, the substantial likelihood

of injury to the public, and the safety of persons or property

in determining whether to grant the companion chatbot platform

calendar days to cure and issue the letter of guidance.

1. The 45-calendar-day cure period does not apply to an

alleged violation where the companion chatbot platform willfully

or knowingly disregarded the account holder’s age.

2. For an alleged violation of paragraph (2)(c), the

companion chatbot platform may provide for the department’s

consideration information that shows that the reasonable

measures taken by the platform include controls aligned with the

latest versions of the National Institute of Standards and

Technology AI Risk Management Framework, ISO 42001. Such

information may include structured interaction logs, status of

parental access controls, harm-signal detection and response

procedures enacted, and verified deletion events.

(b) If the alleged violation is cured to the satisfaction
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

of the department, and proof of such cure is provided to the

department, the department may not bring an action for the

alleged violation but may issue a letter of guidance stating

that the companion chatbot platform will not be offered a 45-

calendar-day cure period for any future violations of this

section.

(c) If the companion chatbot platform fails to cure the

alleged violation within 45 calendar days, the department may

bring an action against such companion chatbot platform for the

alleged violation.

(5)(a) A companion chatbot platform that knowingly or

recklessly violates this section is liable to a minor account

holder for up to $10,000 in damages plus court costs and

reasonable attorney fees as ordered by the court.

(b) A civil action for a claim under this subsection must

be brought within 1 year after the date the complainant knew, or

reasonably should have known, of the alleged violation.

(c) An action brought under this subsection may be brought
only on behalf of a minor account holder.

(6) For purposes of bringing an action under this section,

a companion chatbot platform that allows a minor to become or be

an account holder on the platform is considered to be both

engaged in substantial and not isolated activities within this

state and operating, conducting, engaging in, or carrying on a

business, and doing business in this state, and is therefore

subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of this state.

(7) This section does not preclude any other available
remedy at law or equity.
(8) The department may adopt rules to implement this
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

section.
Section 7.

Section 501.9985, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:

501.9985 Consumer protections regarding bots.—

(1) At the beginning of an interaction between a user and a

bot, and at least once every hour during the interaction, an

operator shall display a pop-up message or other prominent

notification notifying the user or, if the interaction is not

through a device with a screen, otherwise inform the user, that

he or she is not engaging in dialogue with a human counterpart.

This section does not apply to a bot that is used solely by

employees within a business for its internal operational

purposes.

(2) A violation of this section is deemed a deceptive or

unfair trade practice or act actionable under part II of this

chapter solely by the department on behalf of a user of a bot.

If the department has reason to believe that an operator is in

violation of this section, the department, as the enforcing

authority, may bring an action against the operator for a

deceptive or unfair trade practice or act. For the purpose of

bringing an action pursuant to this section, ss. 501.211 and

501.212 do not apply. In addition to any other remedy under part

II of this chapter, the department may collect a civil penalty

of up to $50,000 per violation and reasonable attorney fees and

court costs.

(3)(a) After the department has notified an operator in

writing of an alleged violation, the department may grant the

operator 45 calendar days to cure the alleged violation and may

issue a letter of guidance stating that the companion chatbot
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

platform will not be offered another 45-calendar-day cure period

for any future violations. The department may consider the

number and frequency of violations, the substantial likelihood

of injury to the public, and the safety of persons or property

in determining whether to grant an operator 45 calendar days to

cure and issue the letter of guidance.

(b) For an alleged violation of this section, the operator

may provide for the department’s consideration information that

demonstrates that the operator provides persistent and

conspicuous identity indicators and accessible disclosures which

are in conformity with the latest versions of the National

Institute of Standards and Technology AI Risk Management

Framework, ISO 42001.

(c) If the alleged violation is cured to the satisfaction

of the department and proof of such cure is provided to the

department, the department may not bring an action for the

alleged violation but may issue a letter of guidance that

indicates that the operator will not be offered a 45-calendar-

day cure period for any future violations.

(d) If the operator fails to cure the alleged violation

within the 45-calendar-day cure period, the department may bring

an action against such operator for the alleged violation.

(4) For purposes of bringing an action pursuant to this

section, an operator that owns, operates, or otherwise makes

available a bot to individuals in this state is considered to be

both engaged in substantial and not isolated activities within

this state and operating, conducting, engaging in, or carrying

on a business, and doing business in this state, and is

therefore subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of this
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

state.
(5) The department may adopt rules to implement this
section.
Section 8.

Section 501.9986, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:

501.9986 Consumer protections regarding deidentified data.—

(1) An artificial intelligence technology company may not

sell or disclose personal information of users unless the

information is deidentified data. This subsection does not

prohibit the sale or disclosure of information specifically

authorized by federal law.

(2) An artificial intelligence technology company in

possession of deidentified data shall do all of the following:

(a) Take reasonable measures to ensure that the data cannot
be associated with a user.
(b) Maintain and use the data in deidentified form. An

artificial intelligence technology company may not attempt to

reidentify the data, except that the artificial intelligence

technology company may attempt to reidentify the data solely for

the purpose of determining whether its deidentification

processes satisfy the requirements of this section.

(c) Contractually obligate a recipient of the deidentified
data to comply with this section.
(d) Implement business processes to prevent the inadvertent
release of deidentified data.

(3) A violation of this section is deemed a deceptive or

unfair trade practice or act actionable under part II of this

chapter solely by the department. If the department has reason

to believe that an artificial intelligence technology company is
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

in violation of this section, the department, as the enforcing

authority, may bring an action against the artificial

intelligence technology company for a deceptive or unfair trade

practice or act. For the purpose of bringing an action pursuant

to this section, ss. 501.211 and 501.212 do not apply. In

addition to any other remedy under part II of this chapter, the

department may collect a civil penalty of up to $50,000 per

violation and reasonable attorney fees and court costs.

(4)(a) After the department has notified an artificial

intelligence technology company in writing of an alleged

violation, the department may grant the artificial intelligence

technology company 45 calendar days to cure the alleged

violation and may issue a letter of guidance stating that the

artificial intelligence technology company will not be offered

another 45-calendar-day cure period for any future violations.

The department may consider the number and frequency of

violations, the substantial likelihood of injury to the public,

and the safety of persons or property in determining whether to

grant the artificial intelligence technology company 45 calendar

days to cure and issue the letter of guidance.

(b) For an alleged violation of this section, the

artificial intelligence technology company may provide for the

department’s consideration information that shows that the

artificial intelligence technology company maintains a risk

management program that:

1. Validates the company’s information security and privacy

controls against a recognized framework aligned with the latest

versions of the National Institute of Standards and Technology

AI Risk Management Framework, ISO 42001; and
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

2. Includes assessed controls for deidentification,

contractual flow-down, non-reidentification, inadvertent release

prevention, monitoring, and auditing sufficient to demonstrate

that the company is taking reasonable measures to meet the

requirements of this section.

(c) If the alleged violation is cured to the satisfaction

of the department and proof of such cure is provided to the

department, the department may not bring an action for the

alleged violation but may issue a letter of guidance that

indicates that the artificial intelligence technology company

will not be offered another 45-calendar-day cure period for any

future violations.

(d) If the artificial intelligence technology company fails

to cure the alleged violation within the 45-calendar-day cure

period, the department may bring an action against such

artificial intelligence technology company for the alleged

violation.

(5) For purposes of bringing an action pursuant to this

section, an artificial intelligence technology company that

produces, develops, creates, designs, or manufactures artificial

intelligence technology or products, collects data for use in

artificial intelligence products, or implements artificial

intelligence technology in this state is considered to be both

engaged in substantial and not isolated activities within this

state and operating, conducting, engaging in, or carrying on a

business, and doing business in this state, and is therefore

subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of this state.

(6) The department may adopt rules to implement this
section.
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

Section 9.

20262D__
Section 501.9987, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:

501.9987 Investigations.—

(1) If, by its own inquiry or as a result of complaints,

the department has reason to believe that a person has engaged

in, or is engaging in, a practice or an act that violates this

part, the department may administer oaths and affirmations,

subpoena witnesses or matter, and collect evidence. Within 5

days, excluding weekends and legal holidays, after service of a

subpoena, or at any time before the return date specified in the

subpoena, whichever time period is longer, the party served may

file in the circuit court in the county in which it resides or

in which it transacts business and serve upon the enforcing

authority a petition for an order modifying or setting aside the

subpoena. The petitioner may raise any objection or privilege

that would be available upon service of a subpoena in a civil

action. The subpoena must inform the party served of the party’s

rights under this subsection.

(2) If the matter that the department seeks to obtain by

subpoena is located outside this state, the person subpoenaed

may make the matter available to the department or its

representative at the place where it is located. The department

may designate representatives, including officials of the state

in which the matter is located, to inspect the matter on its

behalf and may respond to similar requests from officials of

other states.

(3) Upon the failure of a person, without lawful excuse, to

obey a subpoena and upon reasonable notice to all persons

affected, the department may apply to the circuit court for an
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

order compelling compliance.
(4) The department may request that a person who refuses to

comply with a subpoena on the grounds that the testimony or

matter may be self-incriminating be ordered by the court to

provide the testimony or matter. Except in a prosecution for

perjury, a person who complies with a court order to provide

testimony or matter after asserting a valid privilege against

self-incrimination may not have the testimony or matter so

provided, or evidence derived from the testimony or matter,

received against the person in any criminal investigation or

proceeding.

(5) A person upon whom a subpoena is served pursuant to

this part must comply with its terms unless otherwise provided

by order of the court. A person who fails to appear, with the

intent to avoid, evade, or prevent compliance in whole or in

part with an investigation under this part, or who removes from

any place, conceals, withholds, mutilates, alters, or destroys,

or by any other means falsifies any documentary material in the

possession, custody, or control of a person subject to a

subpoena, or who knowingly conceals relevant information with

the intent to avoid, evade, or prevent compliance, is liable for

a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 per week in violation,

reasonable attorney fees, and costs.

(6) The department may adopt rules to implement this
section.
Section 10.

Section 540.08, Florida Statutes, is amended to

read:
540.08 Unauthorized publication of name, image, or
likeness.—
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

(1) As used in this section, the term:

(a) “Generative artificial intelligence” means a machine-

based system that can, for a given set of human-defined

objectives, emulate the structure and characteristics of input

data in order to generate derived synthetic content, including

images, videos, audio, text, and other digital content.

(b) “Person” has the same meaning as in s. 1.01.

(c) “Servicemember” has the same meaning as in s. 250.01

and includes any officer or enlisted member who died from

service-connected causes while on active duty.

(d) “Surviving children” means an individual’s immediate

offspring and any children legally adopted by the individual.

(e) “Surviving spouse” means an individual’s surviving

spouse under the law of the individual’s domicile at the time of

the individual’s death, regardless of whether the spouse later

remarried.

(2) A person may not publish, print, display, or otherwise

publicly use for trade or for any commercial or advertising

purpose the name, portrait, photograph, image, or other likeness

of an individual created through generative artificial

intelligence without the express written or oral consent to such

use given by any of the following:

(a) The individual.

(b) Any other person authorized in writing by the

individual to license the commercial use of the individual’s

name, image, or likeness.

(c) If the individual is deceased:

1. A person authorized in writing to license the commercial

use of the individual’s name, image, or likeness; or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

2. If a person is not authorized, any one individual from a

class composed of the deceased individual’s surviving spouse and

surviving children. A legal parent or guardian may give consent

on behalf of a minor surviving child.

(3) A No person may not shall publish, print, display or

otherwise publicly use for purposes of trade or for any

commercial or advertising purpose the name, portrait,

photograph, image, or other likeness of an individual any

natural person without the express written or oral consent to

such use given by any of the following:

(a) The individual. Such person; or

(b) Any other person, firm or corporation authorized in

writing by the individual such person to license the commercial

use of the individual’s her or his name, image, or likeness.; or

(c) If the individual such person is deceased:,

1. A any person, firm or corporation authorized in writing

to license the commercial use of the deceased individual’s her

or his name, image, or likeness;, or

2. If a no person, firm or corporation is not so

authorized, then by any one individual from among a class

composed of the individual’s her or his surviving spouse and

surviving children. A legal parent or guardian may give consent

on behalf of a minor surviving child.

(4)(2) If In the event the consent required in subsection

(2) or subsection (3) (1) is not obtained, the individual person

whose name, portrait, photograph, image, or other likeness is so

used, or a any person, firm, or corporation authorized by the

individual such person in writing to license the commercial use

of the individual’s her or his name, image, or likeness, or, if
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

the individual person whose likeness is used is deceased, a any

person, firm, or corporation having the right to give such

consent, as provided in subsection (2) or subsection (3)

hereinabove, may bring an action to enjoin the such unauthorized

publication, printing, display, or other public use, and to

recover damages for any loss or injury resulting from the

unauthorized publication sustained by reason thereof, including

an amount that which would have been a reasonable royalty, and

punitive or exemplary damages.

(5)(3) If a person uses the name, portrait, photograph,

image, or other likeness of a servicemember member of the armed

forces without obtaining the consent required in subsection (2)

or subsection (3) (1) and the such use is not subject to an any

exception listed in this section, a court may impose a civil

penalty of up to $1,000 per violation in addition to the civil

remedies contained in subsection (4) (2). Each commercial

transaction constitutes a violation under this section. As used

in this section, the term “member of the armed forces” means an

officer or enlisted member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine

Corps, Space Force, or Coast Guard of the United States, the

Florida National Guard, and the United States Reserve Forces,

including any officer or enlisted member who died as a result of

injuries sustained in the line of duty.

(6)(4) The provisions of This section does shall not apply
to any of the following:
(a) The publication, printing, display, or use of the name,

portrait, photograph, image, or other likeness of an individual

any person in a any newspaper, magazine, book, news broadcast or

telecast, radio broadcast, or other news medium or publication
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

if used as part of a any bona fide news report or presentation

having a current and legitimate public interest and if the where

such name, image, or likeness is not used for advertising

purposes.;

(b) The publication, printing, display, or use of the name,

portrait, photograph, image, or other likeness of an individual

created through generative artificial intelligence in a

newspaper, magazine, book, news broadcast or telecast, radio

broadcast, or other news medium or publication if the generative

artificial intelligence is used as part of a bona fide news

report or presentation and that report or presentation contains

a clear acknowledgement of speculation regarding the

authenticity of the materials which are the subject of the

report or presentation.

(c) The use of an individual’s such name, portrait,

photograph, image, or other likeness in connection with the

resale or other distribution of literary, musical, or artistic

productions or other articles of merchandise or property with

the individual’s consent where such person has consented to the

use of her or his name, portrait, photograph, or likeness on or

in connection with the initial sale or distribution of the

productions, articles, or merchandise. thereof; or

(d)(c) A Any photograph of an individual a person solely as

a member of the public if the individual and where such person

is not named or otherwise identified in or in connection with

the use of the such photograph.

(7)(5) An No action may not shall be brought under this

section by reason of a any publication, printing, display, or

other public use of the name, portrait, photograph, image, or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

other likeness of an individual a person occurring more than

after the expiration of 40 years from and after the death of the

individual such person.

(6) As used in this section, a person’s “surviving spouse”

is the person’s surviving spouse under the law of her or his

domicile at the time of her or his death, whether or not the

spouse has later remarried; and a person’s “children” are her or

his immediate offspring and any children legally adopted by the

person. Any consent provided for in subsection (1) shall be

given on behalf of a minor by the guardian of her or his person

or by either parent.

(8)(7) The remedies provided for in this section are shall

be in addition to and not in limitation of the remedies and

rights of any person under the common law against the invasion

of her or his privacy.

Section 11.

Subsection (21) is added to section 1002.42,

Florida Statutes, to read:

1002.42 Private schools.—

(21) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE INSTRUCTIONAL TOOLS.—A private

school that provides student access to an artificial

intelligence instructional tool, as defined in s. 1006.1495,

must comply with the provisions in that section.

Section 12.

Section 1006.1495, Florida Statutes, is created

to read:
1006.1495

Artificial intelligence instructional tools;

parental notice, opt-out, and account access.—

(1) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section, the term:

(a) “Artificial intelligence instructional tool” means a

software application or service that uses artificial
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

intelligence, including machine learning, which is made

available to a student by an educational entity for educational

purposes, including instruction, tutoring, practice, feedback,

or completing educator-directed assignments, and that is not

designed, marketed, or configured to:

1. Meet a student’s social needs;

2. Simulate friendship, companionship, or an emotional

relationship with a student; or
3. Employ relationship-building or anthropomorphic design

features for the purpose of encouraging a student to continue

interacting with the system.

(b) “Educational entity” means a school district, a public

school, or a private school. The term includes a VPK provider

meaning a private prekindergarten provider or a public school

prekindergarten provider, as those terms are defined in s.

1002.51, which delivers the Voluntary Prekindergarten Education

Program under part V of chapter 1002.

(c) “Operator” means a person who operates an artificial

intelligence instructional tool and collects, receives,

maintains, or uses student information or student-generated

content through the tool.

(d) “Parent” includes a parent, guardian, or other person

with legal authority to make educational decisions for a

student.

(e) “Private school” has the same meaning as in s.
1002.01(3).
(f) “Public school” means a component described in s.
1000.04(2), (4), (5), or (6).
(2) RESTRICTION.—An educational entity may not provide
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

students with access to an artificial intelligence instructional

tool before grade 6 unless such use is:

(a) Directed and supervised by school personnel;

(b) For translation or similar support necessary for a

student identified as an English language learner; or

(c) For accommodations, assistive technology, or similar

support necessary for a student with a documented disability.

(3) EDUCATIONAL USE; PARENTAL NOTICE.—Before a student is

provided access credentials for an artificial intelligence

instructional tool, the educational entity must provide the

parent of a minor student with notice that:

(a) Identifies the tool and its educational purpose;

(b) Describes, in general terms, the manner in which the

tool will be used by students;
(c) Explains how the parent may exercise the opt-out
process under subsection (4); and

(d) Explains how the parent may access the student’s

account or request access to information and account activity

under subsection (5), including the method for submitting a

written request.

(4) PARENTAL OPT-OUT.—

(a) A parent of a minor student must be provided the

opportunity to opt out of the student’s use of an artificial

intelligence instructional tool.

(b) The opt-out process must align with the educational

entity’s existing policies for parental notice, consent,

objection, or opt out for instructional materials, digital

tools, or online accounts, as applicable.

(c) If a parent opts out of a student’s use of an
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

artificial intelligence instructional tool and the student is

enrolled in a public school, the school district or public

school must provide an alternative instructional activity that

allows the student to meet a comparative educational requirement

without penalty.

(5) PARENT ACCOUNT ACCESS; COMPLIANCE OPTIONS.—

(a) At the time an operator provides a student’s access

credentials or otherwise provides or enables student access to

an educational entity for an artificial intelligence

instructional tool, the operator shall simultaneously provide to

the educational entity a means to authorize the parent of a

minor student to access information and account activity

maintained within the artificial intelligence instructional

tool.

(b) The operator may satisfy paragraph (a) by:

1. Providing the parent of a minor student credentials or

another method for read-only access to the student’s account; or

2. Upon written request from the parent of a minor student,

providing access to the information and account activity

maintained within the tool, in accordance with applicable state

and federal law, within 30 days after receipt of the request.

The educational entity shall inform the parent of the right to

make such a request and the method for submitting the request.

(c) If an educational entity satisfies subparagraph (b)1.,

the educational entity must provide the credentials or other

access method at the time the educational entity provides the

student with access credentials or otherwise enables student

access.

(d) This subsection does not require an operator or
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

educational entity to create or retain a transcript or record of

student interactions beyond information otherwise maintained in

the ordinary course of providing access to the tool.

(6) CONSTRUCTION.—This section does not alter:

(a) A parent’s rights under state or federal law to access

student education records; or
(b) An educational entity’s obligations under applicable
state and federal student privacy laws.
Section 13.

For the purpose of incorporating the amendment

made by this act to section 540.08, Florida Statutes, in a

reference thereto, section 540.10, Florida Statutes, is

reenacted to read:

540.10 Exemption of news media from liability.—No relief

may be obtained under s. 540.08 or s. 540.09, against any

broadcaster, publisher or distributor broadcasting, publishing

or distributing paid advertising matter by radio or television

or in a newspaper, magazine, or similar periodical without

knowledge or notice that any consent required by s. 540.08 or s.

540.09, in connection with such advertising matter has not been

obtained, except an injunction against the presentation of such

advertising matter in future broadcasts or in future issues of

such newspaper, magazine, or similar periodical.

Section 14.

For the purpose of incorporating the amendment

made by this act to section 540.08, Florida Statutes, in a

reference thereto, paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section

743.08, Florida Statutes, is reenacted to read:

743.08 Removal of disabilities of minors; artistic or

creative services; professional sports contracts; judicial

approval.—
CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.

Florida Senate - 2026

20262D__

(1) A contract made by a minor or made by a parent or

guardian of a minor, or a contract proposed to be so made, may

be approved by the probate division of the circuit court or any

other division of the circuit court that has guardianship

jurisdiction, where the minor is a resident of this state or the

services of the minor are to be performed or rendered in this

state, where the contract sought to be approved is one under

which:

(c) The minor will endorse a product or service, or in any

other way receive compensation for the use of right of publicity

of the minor as that right is defined by s. 540.08.

Section 15.

This act shall take effect July 1, 2026.

CODING: Words stricken are deletions; words underlined are additions.
